IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
ARIZONA, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 12-71
v. :
THE INTER TRIBAL COUNCIL :
OF ARIZONA, INC., ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, March 18, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:04 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
THOMAS C. HORNE, ESQ., Attorney General of Arizona,
Phoenix, Arizona; on behalf of Petitioners.
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Respondents.
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
THOMAS C. HORNE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
PATRICIA A. MILLETT, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 31
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
SRI SRINIVASAN, ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondents 50
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
THOMAS C. HORNE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 61
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:04 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 12-71, Arizona v. the Inter
Tribal Council of Arizona.
General Horne.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. HORNE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. HORNE: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
The NVRA should not be construed to preempt
Arizona's Proposition 200 for three reasons. First,
prohibiting a State from effectively enforcing the
citizenship requirement is so far-reaching that if
Congress had intended that, it would have put the
prohibition in the statute expressly, which it did not
do. Congressional silence should not disable States
from taking sensible precautions to exclude noncitizens
from voting.
Second, when Congress wanted to expressly
prohibit something, it knew how to do it. It expressly
prohibited notarization and other forms of
authentication. This Court has frequently held that
statutory language that indicates -- that prohibits one
thing indicates there's no other implicit prohibition:
The expressio unius rule.
Third, Proposition 200 is consistent with
the purposes and objectives of the NVRA because the
purpose of the NVRA -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If I see the purpose of
the NVRA to simplify registration -
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- how is Arizona's
provisions consistent with that objective and purpose?
MR. HORNE: Your Honor -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Given that some of the
amici explain that many people don't have the documents
that Arizona requires?
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor. First of all,
the -- simplifying the procedure is one of two important
purposes of the NVRA. The other is the integrity of the
system -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but why does one
take precedence over another?
MR. HORNE: I would say, Your Honor, that
neither takes precedence over the other. They're both
equally important. And so -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So, if something you do
conflicts with one of those purposes, why isn't it
preempted by the Federal law?
MR. HORNE: Your Honor, I think the question
is, if you take the two purposes together, does -- does
the Proposition 200 strongly fulfill one and have a
minimal burden on the other? And, Your Honor, I would
rely on the findings of the -- of the district court in
this case. In fact, this Court instructed the Ninth
Circuit to defer to the factual findings of the district
court in the Purcell case, which was this case in an
earlier stage.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why would you think that
Congress, in doing the short form registration, didn't
consider the issue of fraud, and decide that it had
arrived at the balance it wanted?
MR. HORNE: Because, Your Honor, the -- the
Congress did not specify what the States could or could
not do.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But it did -- but
Congress did specify how citizenship was to be handled.
And it was to be an attestation, a signed attestation
subject to -- to the penalty of perjury. So it's not as
though the Federal form didn't relate to citizenship.
It did. And it said this is the way we deal with
citizenship. Then Arizona adds something else.
So I would like, General Horne, for you to
respond to a question that's already been raised in -
by the -- the panel that decided this case originally,
which was, the statute said -- says each State must
accept and use the Federal form, period. That's the end
of it.
And then it says, in addition to that, the
State can do other things. The judge who asked that
question thought it was perfectly clear, you use the
Federal form, and if you want to do something in
addition -- but you must use and accept the Federal Form
and not add something to it.
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor. I think it's
very clear that this statute does not say the signature
is the only thing that the States can use to verify the
eligibility of the applicant. Now, in -- in using the
term "accept and use," Your Honor, accept and use in
ordinary language -- we've given lots of examples in our
briefs -- one can accept and use a form for a particular
purpose without that form being sufficient to accomplish
that purpose.
I came here from Arizona on an airplane. If
the airline said we accept and use an e-mail ticket, you
don't need to bring a paper ticket. And then I got
there and they said, we want to see identification to
prove that you are who you say you are, that would not
contradict the statement that they are accepting and
using the e-ticket. They are accepting and using the
e-ticket for a specific purpose -
JUSTICE KAGAN: But, General Horne, wouldn't
it contradict it if instead of saying well, we'd like
you to offer identification, saying, well, we'd like you
also to have a paper ticket.
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor. If they -
JUSTICE KAGAN: That would be inconsistent
with the accept and use language, isn't that right?
MR. HORNE: That's correct, Your Honor.
Yes, Your Honor. And if I take that analogy to our -
to our facts, if we had changed the Federal form, I
think we would have been in violation. But we did not
change the Federal form. We used the Federal form
exactly as it's printed by the Federal government. And
we -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, you have done
something to the Federal form, and that essentially
creates a new set of requirements and a new form.
MR. HORNE: Your Honor, we -- we accept and
use the Federal form. We ask, in addition to that, for
evidence that the person is a citizen, that they're
eligible to vote. The form is not exclusive. The form
does not bind us to use only the form and nothing else.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Do you -- do you think that
you could have said -- you know, we have our own State
form, which we're allowed to have under the statute.
Anybody who requires the Federal form has to append the
State form as well.
Could you have done that?
MR. HORNE: I think not, Your Honor, because
I think that would have been contrary to the purposes
and objectives of the Act. I think what we did is
consistent with the purposes and objectives of the Act.
But if you -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, how do we draw the
line? Where does the line get drawn between adding just
your own form, and adding a new set of requirements,
which -- you know, you could just as easily have called
a form?
MR. HORNE: Because the statute contemplates
that it -- that it is the burden of the States to
determine the eligibility of the voters. The -- the EAC
was given the duty to develop the form, and we don't
argue with the fact that the form belongs to the EAC.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So that form should have
included the eligibility requirements that your State
demands. And it seems to me your complaint is that the
Federal form does not require proof of citizenship,
unless you consider just the statement that I'm a
citizen to be proof of citizenship.
But why didn't you challenge the form? I
mean, that's -- that's my problem with this. I frankly
think that Federal form doesn't make much sense unless
it's -- unless it's to be exclusive for Federal voting.
And -- and why didn't you challenge the -- the refusal
of the Commission to include on the form, as additional
State requirements, the proof of citizenship?
MR. HORNE: Your Honor, under Section
6(a)(1) of the statute, the burden of determining
whether the citizen is eligible rests with the State.
That -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Sure. Sure.
MR. HORNE: The form belongs to the EAC.
The determination of whether the applicant is eligible
belongs to us. So whether or not they put what -- what
we're asking for on the form doesn't matter. We are
fulfilling our duty under Section 6(a)(1) by determining
the eligibility of the applicant by asking for
additional evidence of citizenship.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you're -- you're
simply denying then that the Federal government can, so
long as it protects the requirements that your State
imposes, you're -- you're saying the Federal government
cannot prescribe a single form for -- for voter
registration.
MR. HORNE: Your Honor, the Federal
government can prescribe the form, but the form is not
exclusive. The responsibility to determine the
eligibility -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why -- why can't it make it
exclusive? Let's assume -- I think -- I think that -
that accept and -- and employ, whatever the language
is -
MR. HORNE: Accept and use.
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- suppose -- suppose I
think that that does mean that it's supposed to be
exclusive. What harm is there so long as the Federal
Commission requires, as part of the Federal form, all of
the necessary proofs of -- of qualification that the
State imposes?
MR. HORNE: Well, Your Honor, the -- the
form is -- cannot be exclusive. I mean, even the ITCA
Respondent and the United States Respondent admit that
we can look to external evidence to determine whether
the voter is eligible. The argument is, they say we can
look at external evidence, but we can't ask the
applicant himself, who has the most information, to pull
out his driver's license and write down a number.
There's no -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Horne, there -
there are a whole list of State-specific requirements
that get appended to the form. And I think Justice
Scalia was raising the question, did you ask to have
Arizona's requirement -- just as the other
State-specific requirements -- did you ask the Federal
Commission to include, as a State-specific requirement,
this proof of citizenship?
MR. HORNE: We did, Your Honor, and the
Commission itself took no action. The executive
director rejected our request. The executive director
has no power to make determinations. Congress
explicitly stated that the EAC can act only by a vote of
three out of four of its members.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And you did nothing more
about that?
MR. HORNE: Yes, sir.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you didn't go to
court to say you have to include this as one of the
State-specific requirements.
Why didn't you do that?
MR. HORNE: Your Honor, that -- that was
under a predecessor of mine, so I don't know the reason.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh. Okay.
Why didn't he do it?
(Laughter.)
MR. HORNE: I'm -- I'm not sure I would be
competent to answer for him, Your Honor. But I think -
but I don't think it makes any difference because the
form is -- is one thing that we accept and use to
determine the eligibility of the voter, but it's not the
only thing.
My friends on the other side -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I have a -- I have a
hugely great difficulty, which is, the NVRA says that
people can mail in this form.
MR. HORNE: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't know how your
rejection of the mail-in, how you're accepting and using
it when you're refusing to register someone when they do
exactly what the Federal law permits them to do: Mail
it in. There -- there's -- I don't -- I have a real big
disconnect with how you can be saying you're accepting
and using, when you're not registering people, when they
use it the way the Federal law permits them to.
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor. That is the
position that the executive director took, that if the
form is fully filled out and on its face it shows the
person is qualified we must accept the application. We
then pointed out in our brief that that would mean that
even if we had documentary proof that the person was not
a citizen, we'd still have to accept the application.
In response to that, the Respondent ITCA and
the Federal government said, no, you can look at
external evidence, if it shows that the person is not a
citizen. So the only question remaining then is there
any basis in the statute for drawing a distinction
between our looking to external evidence that we have
and our asking the applicant to write down a -- a number
from his driver's license.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Could you also ask for an
address, for proof of the address, or proof of date of
birth?
MR. HORNE: If that were consistent with the
purposes and objectives of the Act we could, Your Honor.
And in determining that, one would have to weigh our
interest in the integrity of the system versus what
burdens that places on the -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But then again, it seems
to me the Federal form, as some of my colleagues have
indicated, is not worth very much.
MR. HORNE: Your Honor, the Federal form
sets forth certain minimum requirements that -- that
have to be met. In fact, the -- the Act says
specifically in Section 7(b)(2) that they must ask for
the signature under oath of the applicant. The Federal
form also provides under 7(a)(1) that additional things
that are necessary to determine the eligibility of the
applicant can also be put on the form.
The EAC chose not to put anything additional
on the form, which was their right. It was permissive.
But they did set -- set up a system of State-specific
requirements. I think that reflects the fact that the
States have the burden of determining whether or not the
eligible -- the applicant is eligible.
That's -- that's our burden. We must accept
and use the Federal form as a tool in doing that, but it
is not the exclusive tool, and my friends on the other
side have admitted that it's not the exclusive tool
because they've admitted that if we have documentary
evidence the person is not a citizen, we can reject the
application.
JUSTICE SCALIA: How could you establish
citizenship without having something mailed in, in
addition to the form? What are the other State-specific
requirements? You have to put down your driver's
license number or some other numbers? I -- I guess you
could -- you could make them check off place of birth
and if that place of birth is not the United States, you
could require them to write down some number of -- of
their admission to citizenship. Are there -- are there
numbers that you could demand?
MR. HORNE: Well, some States require the
Social Security number -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay.
MR. HORNE: -- which is not -- which is not
provided for in the statute.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
MR. HORNE: But the -- but it's not
prohibited. And the States were held in -- in the cases
that were brought under that, the States were held that
they could add it because it's not prohibited.
The State of Louisiana -- inconsistently on
the part of the EAC, the State of Louisiana has a
requirement that was approved by the EAC and is in the
form that says, "If the applicant has neither a
Louisiana driver's license, a Louisiana special
identification card, or a Social Security number, the
applicant shall attach one of the following items to his
application: A copy of a current and valid photo
identification, a copy of a current utility bill, bank
statement, government check, paycheck or other
government document." So -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, that's the kind of
thing you should have had and that your predecessor
should have asked for to be included in the Federal
form.
MR. HORNE: Your Honor, the Federal form is
not exclusive.
JUSTICE KAGAN: But -- but, General, doesn't
the -- the statute make the EAC the decisionmaker with
respect to what can be added to the Federal form? The
Federal form -- form, you're exactly right, sets a
floor. But if you look at Section 7, what Section 7
does is to say the EAC gets to decide the minimum
necessary, and it consults with the States and the
States can come to it and tell it what it needs, and the
EAC can take action. But the EAC is driving the bus,
according to Section 7 of this statute.
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor. The EAC is
driving the bus as to the form, but the States are
driving the bus as to what is necessary to determine the
ultimate -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, I don't think they're
driving the bus as to the form. They can't drive it
into a ditch. They're -- they're -- they're subject to
arbitrary and capricious limitations, just as any other
agency is. And to allow Louisiana -- to include what -
what they've allowed in Louisiana to include and to say
that the only proof of citizenship -- there is a
provision in the statute which says consistent with
determining, the States being able to determine the
qualifications.
Isn't there a provision which makes it clear
that the Federal form has to make allowance for the
States determining the qualifications?
MR. HORNE: That's correct, Your Honor. And
the -- and the -- but the -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Now -
MR. HORNE: The -- the duty of the States,
Your Honor, to determine whether or not a voter is
eligible, that is a duty that rests with the State, not
with the EAC.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's true.
MR. HORNE: The EAC can only -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But the form has to enable
the State to do that. And it seems to me you were quite
able to argue that in -- in refusing to allow you to
include in the -- in the Federal form in Arizona some
indication of proof of citizenship requiring nothing
else except oh, I'm a -- check off, I am a citizen,
right? So it's under oath. Big deal. If -- if -- if
you're willing to violate the voting laws, I suppose
you're willing to violate the perjury laws.
MR. HORNE: That's exactly right, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So I think you should -
you should have challenged the commission's refusal
to -- to place that evidence in the Federal form.
MR. HORNE: Your Honor, the Federal form
is -- is a tool that we have to use to determine the
eligibility of the voter, but the ultimate
responsibility under -- under Section 6(a)(1) of -- of
this very Act is with the States to determine the
eligibility of the voter.
My friends on the other side are admitting
that the -- that we're not stuck with the four corners
of the form because -- because we've pointed out that
would result in a ridiculous conclusion that we could
have documentary proof that the person is not eligible.
So, if we're not bound by the four corners of the form,
as in the ordinary use of the term "accept and use," we
accept and use the form for a specific purpose, but it
does -- it is not sufficient to satisfy that purpose.
All parties agree to that.
The only question is, is there a
distinction, which we do not find in the statute,
between using external evidence that we already have and
asking someone to write down the -- the number on his
driver's license, which he is the one that has the most
information. It's the logical way to do it. In fact,
there is no Federal register of American citizens.
JUSTICE KAGAN: I'm a little bit confused.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I take it -- I take
it that -- that counsel on -- on -- on the other side
will disagree with that and they say, well, this is -
this is the line to be drawn. The -- the postcard is
presumptive evidence of registration and -- and of
qualification. And if you have evidence to the
contrary, then it's different. But otherwise, the whole
utility of the single form is missing -- is gone.
MR. HORNE: Your Honor, there -- there is
nothing in the statute to draw a distinction between our
having other extrinsic evidence, which they agree we can
use outside of the form and our asking people to say,
write down -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Other than the statutory
words that authorize the use of the form.
MR. HORNE: Yes, but -- but they don't make
the form exclusive. Congress could have said the form
is exclusive and you can't ask for anything else. They
didn't do that. And they had shown when they dealt with
authentication that they knew how to prohibit something
if they wanted to prohibit it. They chose not to
prohibit this exclusively and -- and so therefore, it
rests with the States -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Some of us have -- do
believe in legislative history. Some of my colleagues
don't.
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. But at least
one of -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Did he point to himself?
One of the concurring judges below said that
he found the statute ambiguous, but that with the -- the
legislative history there just could be no conclusion,
but that Congress rejected your reading. Legislation
history is very clear that this issue of what States
could add to the form was raised and permission to do so
was proposed explicitly and rejected.
How do you -- assuming that I believe in
legislative history, don't argue to me that I shouldn't,
okay?
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you get around
that?
MR. HORNE: Your Honor, if the -- if the
legislative history were consistent, I would -- I would
say that was an argument that could be made. But the
legislative history here is extremely self-contradictory
and one cannot conclude from any part of that
legislative history what was the intent of the majority
of the Congress.
The House committee which dealt with the
very act that -- that we have said, "Only the elected
officials designated and authorized under State law are
charged with responsibility to enroll eligible voters on
the list of voters. The NVRA should not be interpreted
in any way to supplant that authority. The committee is
particularly interested in ensuring that election
officials continue to make determinations as to
applicants' eligibility, such as citizenship, as they're
made under current law and practice."
And the FEC, which is a predecessor to the
EAC, relying on that House committee report, said that
an application received by a local voter registration
official is only an application and be subject to
whatever verification procedures are currently applied
to all applications.
In addition, Your Honor -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Gee, if I believed -- if I
believed in legislative history, I would find that very
persuasive.
(Laughter.)
MR. HORNE: Thank you, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: Could I ask a different -
can I ask -
(Laughter.)
MR. HORNE: Could I just add one quick
point, and that is that the sponsor of the bill was
opposed to that amendment in conference committee,
saying it wasn't necessary, that the States could
already verify applicants under the existing law, as it
was written before that amendment.
JUSTICE BREYER: There's probably a
perfectly good answer to this, but I -- I notice that in
this Federal law in 7(b), it says what the registration
form shall contain.
MR. HORNE: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, there are four
subsections and only one of those refers to a particular
thing, and that is, identifying information. It shall
include a statement, including citizenship, saying -
that contains an attestation the applicant meets that
requirement.
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: And under perjury.
MR. HORNE: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: It says that. Then I look
at the Arizona law and it says in Arizona, you have to
include like in immigration -- you know, a passport, a
birth certificate, and then you have a couple of other
things that show you're a citizen, correct?
MR. HORNE: Yes, those are very unusual.
Normally, you just write down the number from your
driver's license.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, okay. That's not my
question.
MR. HORNE: Okay, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: I'm saying given these five
or six specific things -
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- that show you're a
citizen -
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- what use does Arizona
make of that attestation under perjury?
MR. HORNE: Well, there have been -
actually, there have been prosecutions for perjury, Your
Honor. But it's not -- it's not at all a verification
of the eligibility of the citizen because -
JUSTICE BREYER: I didn't say it wasn't. I
just want to know, since you have right in front of you
a birth certificate or the equivalent, what use are you
making of the Federal provision that's there in the
form: I am a citizen. What use are you making of that?
MR. HORNE: Well, Your Honor, we are making
use of it and I just mentioned -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I know -- I'm sure
you are and then my question is how?
MR. HORNE: By prosecuting -- there have
been ten prosecutions in one year alone of people who
swore falsely. Out of the hundreds that were caught
swearing falsely, ten, in fact, were prosecuted.
JUSTICE BREYER: By?
MR. HORNE: But that -- but that is not a -
that is not a sufficient use or that is not a sufficient
measure of determining eligibility because literally
hundreds have been caught swearing jury -- jury
commissioner forms -- swearing they are not citizens
after they had already registered to vote. Other people
were caught in their applications to citizenship when
they checked and found that they had previously
registered to vote and voted.
So -- so we are making use of it, but it is
not a -- it is not a functional way to determine
eligibility. And in 7(a)(1), Congress said that -- that
both the Federal form and the State form as incorporated
under Section 4 may ask for such additional information,
only such additional information as is necessary to
determine the eligibility of the voter. That shows that
Congress did not intend to prohibit us from getting
additional information as is necessary to determine the
eligibility of the voter.
JUSTICE KAGAN: General, could -- could I
take you back to this distinction that you're making.
You said you can't append an additional form, you can't
use an additional form, but you can require additional
information.
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE KAGAN: So how do -- what's the
difference between requiring additional information and
requiring an additional form? Isn't -- when you say you
need information A, B, C, D, E, that's just a form,
isn't it?
MR. HORNE: No, Your Honor, it's not a form.
It's -- it's an instruction to -- to write down on the
Federal form a number. And there is -- item six on the
Federal form has a block where you write down the number
and if you don't have either number -- you can write
down a -- a driver's license, you can write down a
naturalization number, you can write down an Indian
tribal identification number. If you don't have any of
those numbers, then you can send in one of these
additional documents.
But that is not an additional form. The
reason -- the distinction I draw between the -
incorporating another form or the State form and asking
for additional information is the purposes and
objectives of the Act. The Act indicates that the State
form is an alternative to the Federal form, but cannot
take its place. So I'm saying it would not be
consistent with the purpose and objectives of the Act to
attach the form, but it is consistent -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, what is the -- what
would be the purpose of requiring a Federal form if you
could just say, and in addition to that, you have to
give ten more items of information? I mean, then the
Federal form just becomes another hoop to jump through.
MR. HORNE: No, Your Honor. I -- I don't
think that's correct. First of all -- for two reasons.
First of all, the Federal form does provide minimums.
You must -- you must answer the questions set forth in
the Federal form.
But secondly, to the extent we add things to
the Federal form, those things must be consistent with
the purposes and objectives of the Act. And I -- and
I -- and I justify my assertion that Prop 200 is
consistent with the purposes and objectives of the Act
by relying on the findings of the trial court that
relate exactly to that question, finding that it was a
minimal burden, overcome by a major interest that the
State have -- has in protecting the integrity of the
system, where the -- where the trial judge found a lot
of evidence to show that there was voter fraud going on,
although not the fault of the individuals, the fault of
the organizations that often fool people into signing
the form when they don't intend to -- or they don't
intend to break the law; but as -- but as against that,
that the -- that the burdens are minimal.
And the trial court, the district court, had
a lot of findings justifying the statement that the
burdens are minimal, including the fact, for example,
that if all the rejected forms had been accepted, the
increase in Hispanic registration would have only have
been .1 percent, which is statistically insignificant,
including the fact that out of a population of $6
million, the plaintiffs, who have all the resources one
can imagine, if you look at the list of plaintiffs,
could only find one person out of six million people
that could not satisfy -- who was entitled to vote, who
could not satisfy the requirements of the Act; and a lot
of other findings by the trial court.
And this Court instructed the Ninth Circuit
to give deference to the factual findings of the trial
court in the Purcell case, and the Ninth Circuit ignored
that. And what I'm saying is if you look at the factual
findings of the trial court, our position is consistent
with the purpose and objectives of the Act.
And I'd like to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General -
MR. HORNE: Could I reserve time for
rebuttal, Your Honor?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- I'm still having a
problem.
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Both the Federal law and
the State law require an individual to be a citizen.
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's the basic
qualification.
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Both agree that that's
essential.
MR. HORNE: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How do you fit in the
question of what documents you use to prove that with
establishing the qualification? Meaning citizenship,
you either have it or you don't. That's why the Federal
form says are you or aren't you.
MR. HORNE: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So there's -- that
qualification has been set by Arizona and the Federal
system.
MR. HORNE: The qualification has, but
our -- our objection to the Ninth Circuit decision
preempting Proposition 200 is that it leaves us unable
to enforce our qualification requirement, which under
the Constitution clearly is a State function.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, you have proof,
there are people that you have rejected, even without
these forms?
MR. HORNE: It's extremely inadequate, Your
Honor. It's essentially an honor system. It does not
do the job.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, that's what the
Federal system decided was enough.
MR. HORNE: That's what they decided as a
minimum in the Federal form, but they did not say that
we could not ask for additional information. Congress
could have said that, just as they said we can't ask for
notarization. They chose not to say that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, you admit that it
doesn't let you add things. You have to accept and use
that form.
MR. HORNE: We have to accept and use the
form and we can't change the form, but we can ask for
additional evidence to perform our function of
determining that citizens -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I go back to Justice
Kagan. If you don't have a driver's license to put a
number down -
MR. HORNE: Yes.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- this list of things
says you have to append to the form other items: A copy
of your birth certificate, a copy of your naturalization
certificate. Why isn't that just creating another form?
MR. HORNE: Your Honor, incidentally, there
have been references to a postcard. The EAC itself says
put the form in an envelope. And -- and just as you put
the form in an envelope, you can put a copy of your
birth certificate in an envelope. But I would point out
under Crawford v. Marion County, the holding in this
case, if there's a minimal burden on the great majority
of the people and a somewhat higher burden on a few
people, that does not negate the interests of the State
and the integrity of the system.
May I reserve time for rebuttal, Your Honor?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, you may.
MR. HORNE: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Millett?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PATRICIA A. MILLETT
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MS. MILLETT: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Arizona simply disagrees with the balance
that Congress drew. And when it comes to registration,
Justice Kennedy and Justice Kagan, you're both correct,
the whole point of the Federal form is that Congress had
to draw a different balance. It confronted a situation
in which 40 percent of eligible voters were not
registered because State procedures and burdens were
standing as an obstacle, a barrier between -- in the
direct line of accountability between individual
citizens and their Federal government.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And enclosing your driver's
license number is that immense barrier, right?
MS. MILLETT: First -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's what's keeping 40
percent of eligible voters away?
MS. MILLETT: First of all, with -- with
respect to the driver's license, it's only driver's
licenses issued after 1996, October 1996, and those that
were not -- that someone did not obtain when they became
naturalized. So you have to be about 33 years of age.
Anyone older than that, their driver's license isn't
going to work. And, in fact, Mr. Gonzalez in this case
used his driver's license number and got bounced.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I still think that's a
relatively few number, and -- and if you don't have the
driver's license, then you can use your naturalization
certificate.
MS. MILLETT: You can -- Mr. Gonzalez did
that as well and the naturalization certificate got
bounced because the naturalization certificate, when put
into the computer, does not produce records. It is a
mistake in Arizona's Proposition 200. Neither way is -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you can say that
about any certification procedure that, now and then
there will be a mistake. I mean the fact that there is
one person where -- where the computer spit out the
wrong number or something, that is the basis for
rejecting the entire system that Arizona proposes?
MS. MILLETT: Joint appendix page 263, the
district court found that 31,550 people were rejected
from voting because of Proposition 200. Even on that
same page he finds that 11,000 of them subsequently
registered, but they had to do the double gauntlet that
Congress was trying to eliminate. The other 20,000
swore under oath that they were citizens and Mr. Horne,
before the Ninth Circuit, conceded he had no evidence
that they were not citizens -
JUSTICE ALITO: The statute -
MS. MILLETT: -- of the United States.
JUSTICE ALITO: The statute says that
Arizona must accept and use the Federal form. What does
that mean? Let me give you two possible definitions:
One, the person must be registered if the Federal form
is properly completed and submitted; two, the State may
not make any further inquiry of the person who submits
the form.
Maybe you have other definitions, but what
is the -- what do you interpret "accept and use" to
mean?
MS. MILLETT: We interpret "accept and use,"
it's mainly the latter, your second one, and that is
that it is a limitation on what can be asked of the
individual and that's not just from the Section 4
language where accept and use comes from. But what's
critical here is Section gg-7 which is on 26H of the
petition appendix here. And that's where they say on
this form.
The form may require only, may require
only -- from the applicant, I'm adding that in -- such
identifying information essentially as the Commission
determines is necessary to allow the State to make its
decision.
Now this is not just a ticket into the
State's own registration process so they can go thank
you very much for throwing it in the garbage can, now do
what we would like you to do. It is a registration
form, and when filled out completely and submitted under
oath, it has the same legal -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, let me give you this
example -
MS. MILLETT: -- as the registration form.
JUSTICE ALITO: A person rides up to a place
to register on a bicycle and gets out and hands in the
Federal form. This -- this boy looks like he is 13
years old and he is carrying school books, he is wearing
a middle school t-shirt, but he has filled out the form
properly.
Are they required to register him or can
they ask him, could you show me some proof of age, like
he would have to if he tried to buy alcohol or
cigarettes?
MS. MILLETT: They may not require anything
else from the applicant, but they can certainly apply
their own evidence that they obtain, whether it's from
their own eyeballs or whether it is through records or
databases that they run these through, which is the more
common one, and make a decision.
Now a decision, the decision isn't simply we
would like more from you. That's not an appropriate
decision.
JUSTICE BREYER: His point is, he keeps
making the point, your colleague, and he says, no, that
isn't what it says. What the statute says is it may
require only such identifying information as is
necessary to assess eligibility. In other words, it's
telling the people who write the form what they can put
on it. And they can't put other things on it. But it
nowhere says that the State can't do other things.
Now that's his point. And when I asked him,
well, how are you -- how are you using -- you have to be
able to use, oh, he says, we use it. We use the citizen
part and these things on the form to prosecute people
for perjury. So we're doing what it says, we're using
it and it doesn't say we can't add a few other things.
Okay. Now, that's his argument. Now, your
answer, which would be very helpful to me, is?
MS. MILLETT: My answer is when you look at
26H it's talking about the form. And first, we know
that the commission is the one that decides what is
necessary on this form, a decision that wasn't
challenged -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that conclusive or can
that be challenged?
MS. MILLETT: It can certainly be challenged
under the Administrative Procedure Act. It was not in
this case.
But it says what is necessary on the form.
Now, when you give a -- now when you say what's
necessary on a form you're talking about from the
applicant. So this defines what is necessary from the
applicant, what can be requested or demanded from the
applicant -
JUSTICE BREYER: On the form.
MS. MILLETT: -- on the form, exactly. On
the form. And that is the necessary information to let
them apply their own tools and make the decisions that
the States make -
JUSTICE BREYER: But his problem is how do
you get to that conclusion? He says you can't get there
from the language because the language doesn't say that.
It says what the Commission can put on the form. It
doesn't say anything about whether some other agency,
such as a State or -- you know, sovereign, can add
something.
Now, that's his problem. And I would like
to hear very succinctly, the reason he is wrong about
that is?
MS. MILLETT: The Commission, let me just -
if we turn to 26H at the very top line -
JUSTICE BREYER: 26H.
MS. MILLETT: 26H, where it has a number 1,
let's insert the Commission before I get to the word
"may." And that's all you need to do. We know from the
prior page the Commission is the one doing this. The
Commission may require only from the applicant.
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes.
MS. MILLETT: That's all the Commission is
allowed to require from the applicant.
JUSTICE BREYER: Correct.
MS. MILLETT: And then the burden shifts to
the State to do it. If, Justice Breyer, if the question
is they may require that, and then the State can require
anything else it wants, it is an utterly pointless form.
And what we know from six -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Excuse me, they may require
it. It doesn't say they must require it. So it leaves
it open to the Commission, does it not, to decline to
require some materials that is necessary to enable the
appropriate State election official to assess
eligibility? Isn't that -- isn't that what the language
means?
MS. MILLETT: I don't think that's a fair
reading of what Congress would have assigned to them.
But even if it were, Justice Scalia -
JUSTICE SCALIA: May means may.
MS. MILLETT: -- that's something to be
challenged through the Administrative Procedure Act -
JUSTICE SCALIA: No, no, no, we're talking
about -- right now we are talking about the consequences
of that language, not -- and the consequence of the may
is may. It does not even require the Commission to
include within the form everything that's necessary for
the State to determine eligibility.
Now, why would Congress ever create such a
system where the Commission need not require what's
necessary for eligibility, and nonetheless, the State
cannot, cannot require anything further than what the
Commission says?
MS. MILLETT: The relevant phraseology is
may require only, and that is not your normal permissive
language. It's actually Congress -- it is language of
limitation when used that way. "You may require only"
does not mean that you may -- that you may do what you
want, and they have further down -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It says what you only may
require. It doesn't say what you only shall require.
MS. MILLETT: But you may require what is
necessary to enable. So the language here, I think any
fair reading -- and we don't strain the language in this
context -- the natural reading is that they may require
only the information from the applicant that's necessary
essentially to shift the burden.
JUSTICE BREYER: Where you're going is this,
as I heard you before: It is true that there is no
specific language saying the State can't do this, can't
add things. But it does make a huge point approving
citizenship in a particular way on the form. What would
the point of that be if the State could add things?
So we must look back to the purpose, not
necessarily exclusively the language, of deciding what
that particular provision be, in particularly one as you
quote adding to, what could it have been? And there the
legislative history in my view is helpful because it
makes clear, for example, in at least one place that
Congress did think they shouldn't add a provision that
allows the State to do just what it's doing here because
that wouldn't be consistent with the purpose of the Act.
So I'm putting words in your mouth, but
don't accept them because I put them there.
(Laughter.)
MS. MILLETT: I would just like to add to
that, Justice Breyer, two points, and that is with
respect to citizenship in particular, not only does the
statute, the NVRA flag it, but the Help America Vote Act
in 2002.
So even if you don't want to go just with
the legislative history, Justice Scalia, in 2002
Congress revisited the citizenship requirement for the
Federal form and it added a box that you have to check
that you are a citizen -- that you are a citizen. So
Congress revisited this issue after the statute had been
in effect for nine years.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Ms. Millett, I want to
give up -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Ms. Millett, is
there -- I take it under your theory what the EAC
allowed Louisiana to do was wrong.
MS. MILLETT: It's unclear. It's a little
different in that context, in two ways. First of all,
the Commission made the decision so they have that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, I know. I'm
assuming that, and I'm saying they were wrong.
MS. MILLETT: Oh, I'm sorry. And then the
second thing is the information that's required there is
information, for the most part, that is -- that the Help
America Vote Act allows States to require of
individuals. Now, in the Help America to Vote Act, it's
an either do it at the polls or do it in the
registration.
Maybe the Commission thought it could
forward it, but at least there you have two profound
differences and that is it's at least information that a
separate statute has said States can require from
individuals.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And those are -
MS. MILLETT: But I think it's -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What are they?
MS. MILLETT: That is the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What are the
additional -- the question here is, is proof of
citizenship an additional thing the State can ask. Now
you're telling us that there are some additional things.
MS. MILLETT: No, it's not proof of
citizenship. What it is, is an identification
requirement that can be applied at the polls or the Help
America Vote Act says at the time of registration.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Can you -- can you
explain -- it's puzzling. You have all these
State-specific and pages of State-specific requirements.
What State-specific requirements are permitted and what
State-specific requirements are not permitted? You're
putting the citizenship on the not permitted side of the
line. What is permitted and what is not permitted and
what's the difference in the two categories?
MS. MILLETT: Okay. First of all, the State
requirement of citizenship, it's permitted in the sense
that Congress requires in three different ways that
citizenship be affirmed. It's simply disagreeing about
proof. So it's not as though citizenship is left off
this form, it's simply a question of how it's proved.
But the Help America -- just to get right to your
question -- there's two aspects to the Help America Vote
Act that change this form a little bit.
When you go through those instructions, what
you will see -- here's what those State-specific
instructions are: They are the requirement that you put
in an ID number that is required by the Help America
Vote Act required. Required. So clearly, that is to be
on the form because another statute requires it. And
then you put on -- it says to put on party
identification for the States that have it. Some States
have race identified, and then the instructions tell you
about the different filing deadlines -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is all that stuff required
by the Vote America Act? All that stuff?
MS. MILLETT: No, no -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Just the first thing you
mentioned for us.
MS. MILLETT: Just the
identification number.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the rest is -- is what?
MS. MILLETT: Well, there's two -- those are
things that are in the State -- when you look at those
State-specific instructions, they are not add-ons. They
are not adding attachments.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Ms. Millett, I mean, suppose
it were true that the EAC has been inconsistent in this
respect. That would be a different kind of lawsuit.
MS. MILLETT: That would be a very different
lawsuit that was never brought in this case. And this
just -- the Louisiana thing just happened in -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You've got a great
deal of reliance on what the EAC has done, and I'm
saying if it's not doing a very good job, I'd be -- I'd
question whether or not the fact that the EAC is going
to implement it is sufficient assurance that the Act
reads the way you say it does.
MS. MILLETT: But the Act, I think, by -- by
its own plain language and by its normal -- it can't
have no -- there is only two ways to look at this
statute. It either created a form that is simply to be
the servant of every State and they can pile on to it
anything else they want, and that is utterly
irreconcilable to Congress's findings and the entire
purpose of this statute, or this is Congress's
registration mechanism that it shows exercising its
power.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Not anything else that they
want. Not anything else that they want. But what is,
in the words of the statute, necessary to enable the
appropriate State election official to assess the
eligibility of the applicant? It's clear that the
statute intends the States to be able to do that. And
you say, well, the -- you know, the Commission has -
has required its -- its own proof and the State wants a
different kind of proof. The proof the Commission
requires is simply the statement, I'm a citizen. This
is proof?
MS. MILLETT: This is -- statements -
JUSTICE SCALIA: This is not proof at all.
MS. MILLETT: Statements under oath,
statements under oath in a criminal case -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Under oath is not proof at
all. It's just a statement.
MS. MILLETT: Statements under oath in a
criminal case are proof beyond a reasonable doubt by
which we execute them.
JUSTICE ALITO: What do you make of the fact
that -
MS. MILLETT: It's a very serious oath -
I'm sorry.
JUSTICE ALITO: I didn't mean to interrupt
your sentence. What -- what do you make of the fact
that States can create their own forms? Arizona has its
own form, right? And I don't believe you argue that its
form is illegal. Maybe you think it is and you'll
explain that.
But what -- how -- and Arizona could put on
its own form a demand for the information that it -- it
wants to apply to people who submit the Federal form.
It seems like a very strange system. So, if somebody
happens to fill out the Arizona form, their application
may be rejected; whereas if they had filled out the
Federal form, it would be accepted. How can that be?
MS. MILLETT: Well, there is two responses.
One, it's an open question whether what -- whether the
State form, for purposes of Federal elections, can add
new requirements, but we haven't challenged it, we
haven't challenged here and I think it's -
JUSTICE ALITO: What statutory provision
would you challenge that under? There's -- there's a
provision under the statute, the numbers are complicated
and I don't have it on the tip of my tongue, it says
what the State form must do and I didn't see anything in
that that would -- that would preclude their requiring
this additional proof.
MS. MILLETT: I think -- I think it's
actually a very complicated question. And so to be
clear, there is statutory language, I think, going both
ways on this question. There is in 4(a)(2), which says
the State form has to meet the criteria of 7(b), but
then -- and then there is in 5(a)(6), which says, if
you're going to be handing it out as your public office,
it's the public agencies that have to provide the form,
it has to be equivalent.
But then in Section 2 -- I'm sorry to throw
all these numbers, but I'm just trying to show you how
it's complicated. In Section 2, the very background for
the Federal form is that it's in -- it's in addition to
whatever the States are already doing -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, I've read all those
provisions and -- all right. Let's assume for the sake
of argument that Arizona could do this on its own form.
You haven't argued that their form is illegal.
MS. MILLETT: Correct.
JUSTICE ALITO: This seems to me like a
crazy system. This is like the -- you know, the IRS
creating two different tax returns with different -
with different tax rates and different tax tables and
how much you pay would depend on which particular form
you happened to pick up and submit.
MS. MILLETT: No, not -- not in this sense.
First of all, it would be very respectful of the States
and Congress to arrive at a balance here, if it did
that. But Congress has made clear that there is this
essentially safe harbor role for the Federal form and
that -- and they can't hide it away. It has to be
available for the -- the driver's license and motor
voter process.
It has to be handed out at the relevant
public agencies, and the mail form is available to be
handed out or online for people to find. And so yes,
could it be different -- it's an open question whether
that's what Congress wanted for Federal elections or not
or whether -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: It's not just
different forms. You'd have different voter rolls then,
right, depending on which form?
MS. MILLETT: No.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No?
MS. MILLETT: Oh, I'm sorry.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I would have thought
since you allow -- contemplate a State form that has
different requirements than the Federal form, you would
then end up with two different voter rolls.
MS. MILLETT: No -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Some people that
registered under the State form, some people that
registered under the Federal form.
MS. MILLETT: As -- as of now, Arizona is
doing it as a unitary system. Because anyone who fills
out the State form necessarily satisfies the requirement
of the Federal form.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Yes, but it doesn't
work the other way.
MS. MILLETT: It doesn't work the other way.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You can satisfy the
Federal form, so you're on the Federal list, but not
satisfy the State form, so you're not on the State list.
MS. MILLETT: It doesn't work the other way
at least for State elections. For Federal -- for
Federal elections, it has to be the same. And so for
Federal elections, it's a single roll. It's up to
States to decide how they want to deal with the State
form. At the time the Congress enacted this statute,
about half of the States in 1993, including Arizona, had
a postcard form where you just attested to citizenship
under oath.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The Court of Appeals said
that there's a different preemption test under -- for
this law under this Constitutional provision than there
is under the Supremacy Clause. It seems to me that that
ignores the proposition that the State has a very strong
and vital interest in the integrity of its elections,
even when those, and perhaps especially when those are
elections of Federal officials. And it seems to me the
Ninth Circuit's new test did not give sufficient weight
to that interest.
MS. MILLETT: Well, first of all, the Ninth
Circuit's test came out of this Court's language in
Siebold. It had both conflict language and
harmonization, both of which appear in this Court's
decision in Siebold. But to get directly to your
question of whether there should be a different test, I
don't think it matters on the outcome in this case
because the preemption is in those 31,550 people who
couldn't register.
But, I think the Election Clause is going to
be very different in this sense -- in two critical
senses. And that is that the Elections Clause involves
an authority in the States that is conferred by the
Constitution itself.
May I finish?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Please.
MS. MILLETT: It -- it has no reserve power
that's being protected there, and by the very nature of
the Election Clause is that Congress only acts when it
means to displace or change what the States are doing.
And so the necessity of having a presumption makes no
sense in this context, particularly when you're talking
again about a Federal form for Federal elections of
Federal officials by Federal voters who need a direct
line of accountability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MS. MILLETT: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Srinivasan?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF SRI SRINIVASAN,
FOR THE UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
MR. SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it Please the Court:
The National Voter Registration Act aims to
streamline the process of registration for applicants,
and the provisions that provide for the establishment of
a Federal form embody that objective.
And I'd like to point to three features of
the relevant statutory language that I think support our
reading. And the particular critical provision is at
page 22A of the appendix to the government's brief. And
I'm sorry, I know that the provisions are located in a
number of areas, but the gray brief at page 22A has the
critical provision in our view, which is one that
Ms. Millett was pointing to. And that's gg-7(b)(1).
Now, what this provision embodies is this
understanding: That the EAC is the one who determines
what the content of the Federal form is. Not the
States, but the EAC. The States do have a role in this
scheme, and I think it's important to understand what
that role is.
The States have a consultative role at the
front end. And this is back at page 21A -- I'm sorry
for skipping back. But at page 21A at the bottom of the
page, the EAC is to develop a form in consultation with
the chief election officers of the States.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Srinivasan, the problem
that I have with that is that the provision you're
alluding to says that -- not that the State shall -- not
that the commission "shall" require the information
necessary to enable the appropriate State election
official to assess eligibility, but it simply says that
it "may" require only that information. Now, is it
conceivable that Congress intended that the Commission
may not require some information that is necessary to
enable the appropriate State election official to assess
eligibility, but that the State may not require it
either?
Is that a conceivable disposition of
Congress?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't think it is,
Justice Scalia, but I think the problem with that is in
the premise. I grant you that the statute says "may
require," but it says "may require only," and I think
the only fair way to read this provision is that the
commission is to require the information that's
necessary, but -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You think "may require
only" means shall require only? Is that -- is that your
submission? "May require only" means shall require
only?
MR. SRINIVASAN: It "may require only," in
effect, means shall require information that's
necessary, but may only require that information. I
think the statute would make very little sense if the
EAC discharged its statutory responsibility by having a
Federal form that required nothing other than the name.
That wouldn't be within anybody's conceivable conception
of a rational objective of Congress that would enable
the EAC to satisfy -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It would not be a problem
if the State could require it. It would not be a
problem. When -- when the commission fails to do
what -- what enables the State to assess qualifications,
the State will do it. No problem.
MR. SRINIVASAN: But I think the whole point
of this, Justice Scalia -- and this is where I started,
with all due respect -- is to come forward with a
Federal form that streamlines the process of
registration for applicants. And if the regime that
resulted were one in which the Federal form served very
little purpose other than to set a floor, but then each
of the 50 States could superimpose whatever additional
requirements they wanted to, I think that would largely
defeat the entire purpose of the Federal form.
JUSTICE BREYER: And that's the grand
purpose -- to go back to your -- I see that as your
grand purpose. That's the grand purpose argument. And
then there is the subsidiary purpose argument, which you
started to make, which I wanted to hear, which has to do
with (b). It says may require only such identifying
information. So I thought, well, they could require
less, less than what's necessary. They could. It says
you can't require more. They could require less.
But suppose they put a statement in and they
say, in respect to this qualification, nothing to do
with citizenship: This is what is necessary. No more.
But we've done everything that is necessary. Then could
a State come along and say, we think more is necessary?
MR. SRINIVASAN: I don't think so, Justice
Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: And it's the word
"necessary" that you thought -- that that would be
dependent upon?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Coupled with the statutory
objective because what this provision says is that the
EAC, in consultation with the States, is supposed to
create a form that imposes the following burden on
individuals, on individuals. That's the key.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I know I'm not -- I'm
just not quite -- the last step of what I wanted you to
think up was this -
MR. SRINIVASAN: Sure.
JUSTICE BREYER: It does say "may require
only" -
MR. SRINIVASAN: Correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- "that which is
necessary." So if they said -- and this what is
necessary. Fine. Pretty tough for the State to say I'm
going to add some things. But the very next subsection
does use the words "shall include." So I wonder -- and
that has to do with citizenship. So I wonder if that is
a statement by Congress that in respect to citizenship,
that is what is necessary.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I do think that that's what
Congress contemplated was necessary, but it's not to the
exclusion of this, which is that if a State comes
forward to the EAC, which is a body that's charged with
responsibility for defining the contents of the Federal
form, and says we think something more is necessary.
Take a look at what we want to submit to you, and you
should amend the Federal form, or you should at least
amend our State-specific portion of the Federal form to
include this requirement in it, the EAC could make that
determination.
Congress made that responsibility -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Srinivasan, I think
General Horne told us that -- that the State did ask the
Commission, but the Commission had only two members; the
Commission didn't act on it. Only the legal director.
So how could they get court review of an agency decision
that was never made?
MR. SRINIVASAN: No, Justice -- Justice
Ginsburg, to be clear, I don't -- I don't think General
Horne would disagree with this, the executive director
initially responded to the request by rejecting it, but
it did go to the full Commission, and at that point,
there was a fully-constituted Commission. The
Commission divided by a vote of 2-2.
And so in that instance, the Commission took
no action. But a 2-2 vote is a -- qualifies as a
rejection. And that is something that could -
potentially could have been the subject of judicial
review. Now, I'm obviously not going to give away any
Federal defenses, but -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. And since you believe
that "may require only" means "shall require only," in
judicial review, a determination before the -- the Court
would be whether indeed this information is necessary to
enable the State to assess the qualifications, right?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And the district court here
certainly thought that was necessary. So you're going
to be in -- in bad shape -- the government is going to
be -- the next time somebody does challenge the
Commission determination in court under the
Administrative Procedure Act.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I mean, obviously, I'd
respectfully disagree with that. I think we'll be in
perfectly good shape. And I think part of the reason is
that this -- requiring a statement under penalty of
perjury is the traditional way in which States enforce
their qualifications.
The legislative history shows that Congress
understood that that was the traditional way. What the
State seeks to do here is do something over and above
the traditional way to enforce qualifications.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: As -- as Louisiana
has done.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, Louisiana is not -
is not citizenship-specific here, Your Honor, as
Ms. Millett was pointing out -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But it's certainly
things that were not required in the Federal form.
MR. SRINIVASAN: That's correct. And that
was submitted to the EAC, and the EAC approved of it.
And I think that's the critical distinction here.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How is that
consistent with the statutory purpose to streamline
registration?
MR. SRINIVASAN: Because the statute -- the
statute seeks to streamline registration, but it's not
directed to the exclusion of all other objectives. And
the EAC is charged with balancing the various competing
statutory objectives. And it concluded in -- with
respect to the Louisiana submission -- that that one was
okay. I do think that's different. A, because the EAC
approved of it; and B, because the specific forms of
identification that are outlined in Louisiana addition
were exactly those forms of identification that Congress
already said was okay at either the registration stage
or the voting stage.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You got to stop saying the
Commission approved of it. 2-2 is not approving. You
could say the Commission was unable to disapprove of it.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Well, I think we are
talking about two different things, Justice Scalia. I'm
talking about Louisiana.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
MR. SRINIVASAN: I was trying to answer the
Chief Justice's question.
In Arizona, it was 2-2.
Now, I want to point out one other critical
feature of the statute, and General Horne alluded to
this and said that there's no way to look in the statute
and see a distinction between on one hand what the
individuals can be required to provide, and on the other
hand what the State can then do with the individual
information to crosscheck it.
And the statute presupposes that the State
can conduct its own investigation to crosscheck the
information that the individual supplies. And maybe the
critical provision to see that is at page 19A of the
appendix to the government's brief. And that's a
provision that deals with a different qualification,
felony history. But it operates on this assumption that
States can conduct their own investigation, which makes
all the sense in the world.
This one -- this provision that's in
subsection (g) at the top of the page, which is 1973
gg-6(g), what this does is it tells the United States
Attorney's Offices that when there is a Federal
conviction of a felony, the U.S. Attorney's Office is
supposed to give written notice of that conviction to
the chief State election official.
And what's the State -- chief State election
official going to do with that? Well of course, what
they're going to do is they're going to take a look at
the Federal form, they're going to see what the
individual said about their felony history, and they're
going to crosscheck it -- this information that they got
from the United States Attorney -- to make sure that the
information on the form is accurate.
JUSTICE ALITO: May I ask you a question
that I asked Ms. Millett? Does the United States think
that the Arizona form is illegal? And if it is not,
what sense does it make to have a system in which
whether or not someone will successfully register
depends on the happenstance of the particular form that
the person fills out.
MR. SRINIVASAN: Here is the sense it would
make -- even if -- if Arizona had the authority to add
to the Federal requirements on its own State form, the
sense it would make is this: That the Federal form
always operates as a floor.
It's always there for somebody to use to
register, regardless of what the State form might do in
addition. And that has -- I take Your Honor's
assumption -- if I can just briefly finish -- I
understand Your Honor's point that there is a practical
question about whether that would ever be practicable or
useful, given that an individual would want to use the
State form for State, local and Federal elections, but
there is also the -- the well-understood practice of
organizations that go out to register individuals to
vote.
And they can use the Federal form, and the
Federal form would suffice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Horne, two minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF THOMAS C. HORNE
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. HORNE: Thank you, Your Honor, and I'll
apologize in advance for talking really quickly. The -
my friend says in discussing Section 7(b)(1) that it
would not be rational to require only the signature.
But that's exactly what they did. All they required was
the signature, and 7(b)(1) has nothing to do with that;
7(b)(2) requires a signature. So what the EAC chose to
do under 7(b)(1) was exactly nothing, zero, which -
which emphasizes the point that this is the
responsibility of the States, and that's how they
understood it.
With respect to the license having -- we
cited ARA Section 28-3173, an Arizona statute in our
reply brief that provides that you -- you must renew
every 12 years. So by 2004, the problem that my friend
spoke about was completely erased. Everybody had a new
license which would be sufficient for this purpose, 100
percent.
They admit that we can reject applications
by reference to other -- by reference to other
documentation, but they try to draw a distinction
between that and asking the person to write down the
driver's license number. But there is nothing in the
statute that justifies that distinction. A reference to
criminal history has nothing to do with -- with whether
or not there is a distinction with respect to
citizenship between looking at other documents and
asking the person for their driver's license numbers.
In both cases, it's something outside of the form and
they have admitted we can go outside the form.
With respect to legislative history, Your
Honor, I think the key thing -- Mr. Justice Breyer, in
your question was, it's only in one place. There are a
lot of other places that go the other way. So we cannot
conclude from that one place what the majority of
Congress expected.
With respect to HAVA, in HAVA, the Congress
had another opportunity to expressly state that the
State could not look to external evidence and ask for
additional evidence, and they chose not to do that. And
so I would say that HAVA is further evidence that
Congress was not choosing to prohibit us from asking for
additional information to fulfill our function, if it's
necessary, of being sure that the applicant is eligible
to vote.
With respect to the Siebold case, the court
in Siebold specifically said there will be no preemption
unless there is a direct conflict and only to the extent
of that conflict, and in that connection -- one last
sentence, Your Honor -- if there are two plausible
interpretations, ordinary principles of Federalism say
one should not choose the interpretation that results in
preemption, and the same thing applies with respect to
the canon of constitutional accordance.
Thank you, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:08 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
44:15 46:21 58:9 allows 39:23 41:3 45:19 13:9 18:24
63:16 additional 9:7,20 alluding 51:24 21:20 24:18 62:10,24
7:9 25:1,4,8,9,9,13 ambiguous 20:11 applied 21:19 assertion 26:24
10:8,10 25:14 26:1,2,5 amend 55:17,18 41:22 assess 35:12
13:2 29:22 30:5 amendment 22:7 applies 63:10 38:1 44:13 52:2
18:17,18 41:17,18,19 22:10 apply 34:25 52:6 53:9 56:20
33:8,15 46:8 53:18 America 40:6 36:18 45:17 assigned 38:5
40:1 62:22,25 41:3,4,23 42:13 appropriate 35:6 assume 10:7
adds 5:23 American 19:2 52:6 assuming 20:17
12:14,18 Administrative amicus 1:22 2:10 57:21 58:8,14 assumption
50:15 admit 10:19 answer 12:3 ARA 61:20 attach 15:19
18:9 14:15 62:12 Anybody 8:3 argue 8:20 17:18 43:12
26:6,6,9 admitting 18:11 anybody's 53:3 20:18 45:12 attestation 5:19
27:23 advance 61:9 apologize 61:9 argued 47:1 5:19 22:20
36:7 38:9 affirmed 42:10 Appeals 49:6 argument 1:13 23:18
40:6 41:3 age 32:2 34:21 appear 49:19 2:2,5,8,12 3:3,7 attested 49:4
42:15 agencies 46:16 APPEARANC... 10:21 20:25 Attorney 1:16
43:2,23 47:18 1:15 31:4 35:22 60:2
50:24 agency 16:23 append 8:3 25:8 46:25 50:19 Attorney's 59:17
57:2 36:24 56:1 30:12 53:23,24 61:6 59:18
56:11 19:14 28:20 appendix 32:21 1:17 3:4,5 4:13 3:23 19:23
22:5 airplane 6:20 9:15,19 10:23 31:8 32:20 33:8 authorize 19:18
30:1 AL 1:3,7 13:9 14:1,4,10 45:11,15,19 authorized 21:7
36:25 alcohol 34:22 15:16,19 22:20 46:25 48:12 available 47:15
ALITO 33:5,7 34:1,25 36:12 49:3 58:22 60:6 47:18
45:24 55:5 34:11,14 45:5,9 36:13,14 37:12 60:12 61:20 a.m 1:14 3:2
46:2,23 47:3 37:15 39:8 Arizona's 3:12 63:15
34:3 48:5 22:9 50:25 arrived 5:13 b 25:15 54:1 58:8
39:19
53:21 54:11,12 certificate 23:3 28:15 35:18 58:14,15
62:14 30:19 32:9,11 citizens 19:2 24:16
47:11 briefly 60:19 32:16 citizenship 3:14 committee 21:5
3:8 27:3 30:21,22 42:15 50:10 39:14 40:5,10 completely 34:9
61:7 37:17 39:9 changed 7:12 41:18,21 42:4,8 61:23
56:16 burdens 13:18 55:13 58:4 54:7 55:7,8 46:10,20
bus 16:13,16,17 15:22 17:21 citizenship-spe ... 32:18
buy 34:22 checked 24:19 Clause 49:9,25 conceivable 52:4
23:3,25 canon 63:11 51:21 57:13,18 42:20 20:12 36:21
capricious 16:22 57:23 58:21 colleague 35:9 conclusive 36:4
caught 24:9,15 49:17 38:17,20 40:22 11:12 19:20
24:18 cited 61:20 41:7 44:16,18 20:13 21:4
24:5,11 certain 13:23 citizen 7:22 9:1 51:25 52:4,16 24:23 25:3
36:15,20 certainly 34:25 9:11 13:2,6 53:8 55:24,24 29:22 31:9,11
36:6 56:23 14:16 17:21 55:25 56:7,8,9 33:1 38:5,16,23
40:4 57:18 23:4,15,22 24:2 56:10 57:1 39:22 40:10,13
47:11,12 contradict 6:25 crosscheck 59:4 depend 47:7 disagree 19:6
49:2 50:9 7:4 59:6 60:1 dependent 54:14 56:5 57:4
53:4 contrary 8:7 curiae 1:22 2:10 depending 47:25 disagreeing
57:9 19:10 50:20 depends 60:9 42:10
62:18,19 conviction 59:18 current 15:20,21 Deputy 1:20 disagrees 31:8
59:19 21:14 designated 21:7 disapprove
30:12,13,18 9:15 55:20 discharged 53:1
correct 7:10 17:7 D 3:1 25:15 determinations discussing 61:10
47:2 55:1 57:20 deadlines 42:25 10:4,20 12:6 distinction 13:7
counsel 19:5 43:20 49:1 17:11 18:6,9 25:7 26:3 57:22
61:4 63:13 dealt 19:22 21:5 38:15 district 5:5,7
13:14 17:1 couple 23:3 16:10 49:1 51:12 56:22
26:9,10 Coupled 54:15 decided 6:1 determining 9:10 ditch 16:21
28:4 course 59:22 29:19,20 9:18 13:16 14:9 divided 56:9
57:24 court 1:1,13 3:10 decides 36:1 17:2,6 24:14 document 15:23
50:4 11:19 27:1,12 decision 29:8 develop 8:19 13:1 14:15
63:11 28:2,4 31:7 36:2 40:22 difference 12:4 documentation
54:17 56:22 57:1 63:3 16:6 different 19:10 26:1 28:24 62:9
Crawford 30:20 decline 37:24 40:21 42:9,25 35:20 37:11
creates 7:19 defines 36:12 58:7,17 59:10 doubt 45:3
47:5 definitions 33:9 direct 31:16 26:3 31:12 62:3
45:3 62:7 demand 15:2 directed 58:3 drawn 8:12 19:7
50:12 57:22 58:23 denying 9:22 56:5 13:10 14:21
25:22 30:8 10:5 12:6 14:3 establish 14:18 3:20,21 62:20 26:12,15,18,20
18:7,10 21:13 establishing extent 26:21 26:22 28:14
47:15 23:22 24:14,23 28:25 63:5 29:1,5,19,21
25:2,5 35:12 establishment external 10:20 31:11,17 33:8
44:14 52:2,7 ET 1:3,7 18:23 62:21 40:11 45:17,21
14:10,10 17:12 9:20 10:20,22 extrinsic 19:14 48:11,15,20,20
63:1 18:4,23 19:8,9 e-mail 6:21 49:13 50:13,13
11:13 14:5 emphasizes exactly 7:15 face 12:23 55:17,18 56:15
16:6 61:16 12:16 16:8 fact 5:6 8:20 57:19 59:17,24
employ 10:8 17:25 27:2 13:24 14:8 19:1 60:13,14,23
21:16 enable 17:16 36:16 58:10 24:10 27:14,18 61:2,3
40:18 37:25 39:5 61:12,15 32:4,17 43:22 Federalism 63:8
44:12 52:1,6 example 27:14 45:5,10 felony 59:11,18
53:4 56:20 34:12 39:21 facts 7:12 59:25
54:17 enables 53:9 examples 6:16 factual 5:7 28:1,3 filing 42:25
57:21 enacted 49:2 exclude 3:18 fails 53:8 fill 45:19
58:4,7 enclosing 31:18 exclusion 55:12 fair 38:4 39:6 filled 12:23 34:9
enforce 29:10 58:3 52:15 34:18 45:20
ensuring 21:11 16:4 19:20,21 fault 27:7,7 finding 27:2
44:3 52:8 entitled 27:22 Excuse 37:22 FEC 21:15 28:4 44:6
envelope 30:17 execute 45:4 Federal 4:25 finds 32:24
44:13 equivalent 23:25 56:5 7:18,21 8:3,24 first 3:4,12 4:14
50:9 46:17 exercising 44:8 9:4,5,22,24 26:17,18 31:20
52:1,6 erased 61:23 existing 22:9 10:2,13,14 11:6 31:23 35:25
especially 49:12 expected 62:18 12:16,20 13:4 40:21 42:7 43:4
48:23,24 2:3,6,9,13 41:25 45:14 14:12 16:1,3,7 fit 28:23
49:11,13 essential 28:21 explicitly 11:13 16:8 17:5,19 five 23:11
60:23 essentially 7:18 20:16 18:4,5 19:2 flag 40:6
9:19 47:13 expressly 3:16 25:19,20 26:7 60:15
gg-6(g) 59:16 handed 47:17,19 23:13,16,21 15:21 25:24
29:14 Ginsburg 5:17 hands 34:15 28:16,19,22 identified 42:24
47:24 11:1 41:12,14 happened 43:18 29:16,16 30:15 identifying 22:18
41:16,24 55:22 47:8 30:25 57:16 34:2 35:11 54:1
55:13 33:9 34:11 60:9 Honor's 60:18 illegal 45:13 47:1
27:5 49:14 56:14 harm 10:13 hoop 26:15 imagine 27:20
59:19 harmonization Horne 1:16 2:3 immense 31:19
22:16 8:19 23:11 HAVA 62:19,19 4:10,14,20 5:1 implement 43:23
18:11 going 27:6 32:4 15:11 12:12,21 13:14 inadequate
good 22:12 43:21 higher 30:22 23:5,10,13,16 23:2 38:14 55:6
62:25 government 7:15 history 20:3,12 25:11,17 26:16 included 8:22
39:1 31:17 56:24 40:9 57:9 59:11 29:20 30:3,10 27:14,18 49:3
government's 59:25 62:7,13 30:15 31:2 33:2 inconsistent 7:8
59:9 holding 30:20 55:23 56:5 43:14
5:24 7:3 guess 14:22 13:22 16:3,15 increase 27:16
16:5 25:6 17:7,11 18:1,5 I Indian 25:23
55:23 56:4 H 19:12 20:5,20 ID 42:19 indicated 13:21
61:5 half 49:3 20:23 21:21 identification indicates 3:24,25
27:3 49:11,15 keeps 35:8 let's 10:7 37:9 M
33:20 interpret 33:15 31:10 49:6 13:10 14:22 mailed 14:19
60:22 33:17 key 54:19 62:14 15:17 18:25 mail-in 12:14
54:19 63:9 44:18 31:19,24 32:3,5 majority 21:3
59:2 interpretations knew 3:21 19:23 32:8 47:15 30:21 62:17
63:8 know 8:1,14 61:19,24 62:5 making 24:1,2,3
19:1 interrupt 45:9 23:2,24 24:5 licenses 31:25 March 1:10
24:25 investigation 35:25 36:25 limitation 33:19 Marion 30:20
59:6,12 37:10,21 40:23 38:24 materials 37:25
26:5,14 involves 50:2 44:16 47:4 51:7 limitations 16:22 matter 1:12 9:17
34:2 irreconcilable 54:20 line 8:12,12 19:7 63:16
36:17 44:6 31:16 37:6 42:5 matters 49:22
41:1,2,9 IRS 47:4 L 50:15 mean 9:3 10:12
51:25 issue 5:12 20:14 language 3:24 list 11:2 21:9 10:18 12:25
40:13 6:16 7:9 10:8 27:20 30:11 26:14 32:17
54:2 issued 31:25 33:21 36:22,22 48:20,21 33:9,16 38:25
59:4,7 ITCA 10:18 13:3 38:2,12,23,23 literally 24:14 43:13 45:9 57:3
62:25 item 25:19 39:5,6,12,17 little 19:3 40:20 Meaning 28:25
job 29:17 43:21 20:8 21:25 22:4 logical 19:1 mechanism 44:8
judges 20:10 12:20 21:7,14 13:4 16:9 22:25 members 11:14
jury 24:15,15 49:8 43:10 44:2 43:5
Justice's 58:21 laws 17:23,24 55:16 58:25 met 13:24
27:4 justify 26:24 leaves 29:9 looking 13:8 62:9 Millett 1:18 2:6
49:11 justifying 27:13 37:23 looks 34:16 31:3,4,6,20,23
62:16 33:17 34:13,24
8:11 16:5 20:13 Louisiana 15:13
37:5,8,14,17
25:6,12 legislative 20:3 15:14,17,17
30:8 20:12,18,24 16:23,24 40:19
43:13 21:1,3,23 39:20 43:18 57:13,15
55:3,4,9,11,15 33:2 34:10 18:17 63:8 31:13,22 61:25
44:21,23 56:19,23 63:1 44:23,24,25 organizations perfectly 6:7
46:9 necessity 50:11 45:2,7 49:5 27:8 60:25 22:12 57:5
48:1,3,8 need 6:22 25:15 objection 29:8 originally 6:1 perform 30:5
37:10 38:17 objective 4:9 outcome 49:22 period 6:3
50:7,17 50:14 51:2 53:4 54:16 outlined 58:9 perjury 5:20
57:17 needs 16:12 objectives 4:3 outside 19:15 17:24 22:23
negate 30:23 8:8,9 13:15 62:11,12 23:18,20 35:20
30:21 new 7:19,19 8:13 obtain 32:1 35:1 P 3:1 38:22
29:21 61:23 57:3 32:24 37:11 permitted 42:2,3
noncitizens 3:18 officers 51:21 paper 6:22 7:6 27:21 32:18
officials 21:7,12 22:17 39:14,18 Petitioners 1:4
30:13 25:21,23,24 35:22 42:7 58:7 party 42:22 pick 47:8
30:9 31:19 32:5 58:11 passport 23:2 pile 44:4
48:14 numbers 14:22 open 37:24 45:23 paycheck 15:22 places 13:18
16:11,17 46:19 62:10 operates 59:11 people 4:12 plain 44:1
25:1,4 NVRA 3:11 4:3 60:15 12:11,19 19:15 plaintiffs 27:19
35:12 36:2 4:4,6,16 12:10 opportunity 24:8,17 27:8,21 27:20
21:9 40:6 62:20 29:13 30:22,23 plausible 63:7
38:14,18 opposed 22:7 32:22 35:13,19 please 3:10 31:7
44:12 O oral 1:12 2:2,5,8 45:17 47:19 50:6,23
O 2:1 3:1 3:7 31:4 50:19 48:9,10 49:23 point 20:9 22:6
oath 14:1 17:22 ordinary 6:16 percent 27:17 30:19 31:11
39:13 19:8 proposed 20:16 put 3:15 9:16 61:11
51:3 presupposes proposes 32:20 14:4,5,21 30:8 read 46:23 52:15
56:7 59:5 proposition 3:12 30:17,17,18 reading 20:13
60:20 Pretty 55:4 4:2 5:3 29:9 32:12 35:13,14 38:5 39:6,7
previously 24:19 32:14,23 49:10 36:23 40:1 51:5
printed 7:15 prosecuted 45:15 54:5 real 12:17
probably 22:11 prosecuting 24:7 42:4 reason 11:23
32:16 36:7 38:9 proved 42:12 29:10 54:6 received 21:17
49:4 21:19 31:14 provided 15:7 17:3,6 53:9 reference 62:2,2
53:14 provision 17:1,4 qualifies 56:11 refers 22:17
profound 41:8 46:2,4 49:8 6:7 11:4 13:6 refusal 9:6 18:3
25:3 62:24 59:8,10,14 37:18 41:17 regardless 60:17
prohibiting 3:13 public 46:15,16 47:20 49:21 19:2 34:15,20
15:25 prohibits 3:24 Purcell 5:8 28:2 questions 26:19 registered 24:17
proof 8:24 9:1,8 purpose 4:4,5,9 quick 22:5 24:20 31:14
63:4,10 42:11 44:17,18 53:17,20,22,23 5:11 10:1 19:8
proofs 10:15 purposes 4:3,16
properly 33:11 13:15 26:5,23
27:15 15:15 22:21 result 18:14 says 6:2,5 12:10 21:1
32:22 29:10 40:10 resulted 53:16 13:24 15:16 send 25:25
41:22 42:8,18 results 63:9 17:1 22:13,25 sense 9:4 42:8
requirements review 56:1,14 30:16 33:7 35:9 52:25 59:13
9:8,23 11:2,6 revisited 40:10 35:20 36:9,21 senses 50:2
51:4 48:6 53:19 right 7:9 14:6 46:14 51:24 separate 41:10
44:19 61:14 38:11 42:13 Scalia 8:21 9:13 set 7:19 8:13
resources 27:19 47:23 48:2,4,9 21:22 31:18,21 shifts 37:17
15:3 25:9 43:15 53:13 57:18,23 61:4 39:2 40:9 43:1 27:6 34:21
33:25,25 54:6 55:8 58:6 63:13 43:4,8 44:10,22 46:19
35:11 61:19 62:8,13 role 47:13 51:14 44:25 51:22 shown 19:22
62:19 63:3,10 51:16,17 52:12,18 53:6 shows 12:23 13:5
respectful 47:10 roll 48:25 53:12 56:16,22 25:2 44:8 57:9
respectfully 57:4 rolls 47:24 48:7 58:13,17,19 side 12:8 14:14
39:3,3,4 respond 5:25 rule 4:1 scheme 51:15 18:11 19:5 42:4
41:3,10 responded 56:6 run 35:3 school 34:17,18 Siebold 49:18,20
52:3,5,7 Respondent second 3:20 63:3,4
10:19,19 13:3 S 33:18 41:1 signature 6:12
Respondents S 2:1 3:1 secondly 26:21 14:1 61:11,13
53:7 1:19,22 2:7,11 safe 47:13 Section 9:9,18 61:14
31:5 50:21 sake 46:24 13:25 16:9,9,14 signed 5:19
61:11 response 13:3 satisfies 48:14 18:8 24:25 signing 27:8
42:19,20 responsibility 27:22,23 48:19 46:20 61:10,20 simplify 4:6
43:1 10:4 18:8 21:8 48:21 53:5 Security 15:4,18 simplifying 4:15
53:2 53:1 55:14,21 saying 7:4,5 9:24 see 4:5 6:23 simply 9:22 31:8
59:2 61:17 12:18 22:8,19 42:17 46:6 35:5 42:10,12
rest 43:8 23:11 26:8 28:3 53:22 59:1,8,24 44:3,19 52:2
standing 31:15 41:3,10 42:23 stuff 43:1,2 swore 24:9 33:2
37:21 9:23 10:16 50:3,10,20 submission 30:24 32:20
60:16 29:11 30:23 State's 34:6 submitted 33:11 T 2:1,1
48:3 51:7 36:25 37:18,19 14:7,20 42:1,1 subsection 55:5 7:11 16:13 19:4
58:19,19 38:1,15,18 42:2,3,17 43:11 59:15 19:4 25:7 26:8
41:18 42:7 statistically 22:17 59:23 60:18
12:9,13 43:10 44:4,13 27:17 subsequently takes 4:21
44:17 45:24 statute 3:16 6:2 32:24 talking 35:25
46:6,13 48:5,10 6:12 8:2,16 subsidiary 53:24 36:11 38:10,11
29:4 48:14,21,21,23 9:10 13:7 15:7 successfully 60:8 50:12 58:17,18
49:1,10 51:24 16:6,14 17:1 succinctly 37:3 61:9
40:15 52:1,6,7 53:7,9 18:22 19:13 suffice 61:3 tax 47:5,6,6
23:12 59:21,21 60:13 44:3,7,12,15 61:24 tells 59:16
58:8 60:17,23,23 46:4 49:2 52:13 superimpose ten 24:8,10 26:14
63:4 stated 11:13 58:25 59:5 supplant 21:10 test 49:7,14,17
statements step 54:21 10:11 17:23 theory 40:18
50:18,19,22 45:2 strain 39:6 supposed 10:12 12:5,7 15:25
52:11,22 States 1:1,13,22 strange 45:18 54:17 59:19 22:18 41:1,18
54:10,15 2:10 3:17 5:15 streamline 50:25 Supremacy 49:9 43:4,18 62:14
55:1,10 6:13 8:17 10:19 57:24 58:2 Supreme 1:1,13 63:10
56:3,21 14:9,24 15:3,10 streamlines sure 9:13,13 12:2 things 6:6 14:2
58:1 15:11 16:11,12 53:14 24:5 54:23 60:2 23:4,12 26:21
60:11 16:16 17:2,6,10 strong 49:10 63:1 26:22 30:1,11
41:19 57:10,12 18:6,17,17,18 17:23 32:23 44:12 55:6
55:5 trial 27:1,5,12,24 19:15,18 23:17 58:12 work 32:4 48:17
58:17 28:1,4 23:25 24:2,4,13 48:18,22
8:6,7,8 25:24 28:24 30:1,3 want 6:8,23 worth 13:21
10:7,7,12 tried 34:22 32:8 33:8,15,17 23:24 39:1 40:8 wouldn't 7:3
12:3,4 true 17:14 39:11 33:21 35:18,18 40:15 44:5,11 39:24 53:3
16:19 18:2 43:14 35:18 55:6 44:11 49:1 write 10:24 13:9
32:6 38:4 try 62:3 60:16,22 61:2 55:16 58:23 14:25 18:24
41:13 trying 33:1 46:19 useful 60:22 60:22 19:16 23:6
45:13 58:20 utility 15:21 wanted 3:20 5:13 25:18,20,21,22
turn 37:6 19:11 19:24 47:21 25:23 35:13
51:4 two 4:15 5:2 utterly 37:20 53:19,25 54:21 62:4
52:11,12 26:17 33:9,11 44:5 wants 37:20 written 22:10
40:4,21 41:8 U.S 59:18 44:17 45:17 59:19
54:9 42:6,14 43:9 Washington 1:9 wrong 32:19 37:3
55:10 44:2 45:22 47:5 V 1:18,21 40:19,24
56:4 48:7 50:1 55:24 v 1:5 3:4 30:20 wasn't 22:8
58:7 58:17 61:5 63:7 valid 15:20 23:23 36:2 X
60:5 t-shirt 34:18 various 58:4 way 5:22 12:20 x 1:2,8
verification 19:1 21:10
versus 13:17 43:24 48:17,18 years 32:2 34:17
3:7 61:6
54:2,13 58:15 violate 17:23,24 57:7,10,12
unclear 40:20 violation 7:13 58:25 62:16
51:3 51:15 60:20 vote 7:23 11:13 44:2 46:12 $
34:5 57:10 61:18 56:9,11 61:1 well-understood 1 27:17 37:8
49:2 United 1:1,13,21 voted 24:20 we'll 3:3 57:4 100 61:24
2:10 10:19 voter 9:25 10:21 we're 8:2 9:17 11,000 32:24
unusual 23:5 50:24 willing 17:23,24 18 1:10
7(b)(2) 13:25
46:18,20 61:14
56:9,11 58:14
33:1
3:12 4:2 5:3
29:9
40:7,9
61:22
1:10
51:18,19
51:6,8
33:22 35:25
32:21
61:20
2:4
2:7
32:22
32:2
24:25 33:20
46:12
31:13,21
46:14
2:11 53:18
9:10,18
2:14
16:9,9,14
14:2
22:13 46:13
61:10,13
