IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
SHELBY COUNTY, ALABAMA, :
Petitioner : No. 12-96
v. :
ERIC H. HOLDER, JR., :
ATTORNEY GENERAL, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Wednesday, February 27, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:14 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
BERT W. REIN, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioner.
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Federal Respondent.
DEBO P. ADEGBILE, ESQ., New York, New York; on behalf of
Respondents Bobby Pierson, et al.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
BERT W. REIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Federal Respondent 29
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DEBO P. ADEGBILE, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 52
Bobby Pierson, et al.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
BERT W. REIN, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioner 63
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:14 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
first this morning in Case 12-96, Shelby
County v. Holder.
Mr. Rein?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF BERT W. REIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. REIN: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Almost 4 years ago, eight Justices of the
Court agreed the 2005 25-year extension of Voting Rights
Act Section 5's preclearance obligation, uniquely
applicable to jurisdictions reached by Section 4(b)'s
antiquated coverage formula, raised a serious
constitutional question.
Those Justices recognized that the record
before the Congress in 2005 made it unmistakable that
the South had changed. They questioned whether current
remedial needs justified the extraordinary federalism
and cost burdens of preclearance.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: May I ask you a
question? Assuming I accept your premise, and there's
some question about that, that some portions of the
South have changed, your county pretty much hasn't.
MR. REIN: Well, I --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: In -- in the period
we're talking about, it has many more discriminating --
240 discriminatory voting laws that were blocked by
Section 5 objections.
There were numerous remedied by Section 2
litigation. You may be the wrong party bringing this.
MR. REIN: Well, this is an on-face
challenge, and might I say, Justice Sotomayor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's the standard.
And why would we vote in favor of a county whose record
is the epitome of what caused the passage of this law to
start with?
MR. REIN: Well, I don't agree with your
premises, but let me just say, number one, when I said
the South has changed, that is the statement that is
made by the eight Justices in the Northwest Austin case.
And I certainly --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And Congress -- Congress
said that, too. Nobody -- there isn't anybody in -- on
any side of this issue who doesn't admit that huge
progress has been made. Congress itself said that. But
in line with Justice Sotomayor's question, in the D.C.
Court of Appeals, the dissenting judge there, Judge
Williams, said, "If this case were about three States,
Mississippi, Louisiana, and Alabama, those States have
the worst records, and application of Section 5 to them
might be okay."
MR. REIN: Justice Ginsburg, Judge Williams
said that, as he assessed various measures in the
record, he thought those States might be distinguished.
He did not say, and he didn't reach the question,
whether those States should be subject to preclearance.
In other words, whether on an absolute basis, there was
sufficient record to subject them --
JUSTICE KAGAN: But think about this State
that you're representing, it's about a quarter black,
but Alabama has no black statewide elected officials.
If Congress were to write a formula that looked to the
number of successful Section 2 suits per million
residents, Alabama would be the number one State on the
list.
If you factor in unpublished Section 2
suits, Alabama would be the number two State on the
list. If you use the number of Section 5 enforcement
actions, Alabama would again be the number two State on
the list.
I mean, you're objecting to a formula, but
under any formula that Congress could devise, it would
capture Alabama.
MR. REIN: Well, if -- if I might respond
because I think Justice Sotomayor had a similar
question, and that is why should this be approached on
face. Going back to Katzenbach, and all of the cases
that have addressed the Voting Rights Act preclearance
and the formula, they've all been addressed to determine
the validity of imposing preclearance under the
circumstances then prevailing, and the formula because
Shelby County is covered, not by an independent
determination of Congress with respect to Shelby County,
but because it falls within the formula as part of the
State of Alabama. So I -- I don't think that there's
any reluctance upon on this --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But facial challenges
are generally disfavored in our law. And so the
question becomes, why do we strike down a formula, as
Justice Kagan said, which under any circumstance the
record shows the remedy would be congruent,
proportional, rational, whatever standard of review we
apply, its application to Alabama would happen.
MR. REIN: There -- there are two separate
questions. One is whether the formula needs to be
addressed. In Northwest Austin, this Court addressed
the formula, and the circumstances there were a very
small jurisdiction, as the Court said, approaching a
very big question.
It did the same in Rome, the City of Rome.
It did the same in Katzenbach. The -- so the formula
itself is the reason why Shelby County encounters the
burdens, and it is the reason why the Court needs to
address it.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Interestingly enough, in
Katzenbach the Court didn't do what you're asking us to
do, which is to look at the record of all the other
States or all of the other counties. It basically
concentrated on the record of the two litigants in the
case, and from that extrapolate -- extrapolated more
broadly.
MR. REIN: I don't think that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You're asking us to do
something, which is to ignore your record and look at
everybody else's.
MR. REIN: I don't think that's a fair
reading of Katzenbach. In Katzenbach, what the Court
did was examined whether the -- the formula was rational
in practice and theory. And what the Court said is,
while we don't have evidence on every jurisdiction
that's reached by the formula, that by devising two
criteria, which were predictive of where discrimination
might lie, the Congress could then sweep in
jurisdictions as to which it had no specific findings.
So we're not here to parse the
jurisdictions. We are here to challenge this formula
because in and of itself it speaks to old data, it isn't
probative with respect to the kinds of discrimination
that Congress was focusing on and it is an inappropriate
vehicle to sort out the sovereignty of individual
States.
I could tell you that in Alabama the number of
legislators in the Alabama legislature are proportionate
to the number of black voters. There's a very high
registration and turnout of black voters in Alabama.
But I don't think that that really addresses the issue
of the rationality in theory and practice in the
formula.
If Congress wants to write another statute,
another hypothetical statute, that would present a
different case. But we're here facing a county, a State
that are swept in by a formula that is neither rational
in theory nor in practice. That's the -- that's the hub
of the case.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I suppose the thrust of
the questions so far has been if you would be covered
under any formula that most likely would be drawn, why
are you injured under this one?
MR. REIN: Well, we don't agree that we
would be covered under any formula.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's -- that's the
hypothesis. If you could be covered under most
suggested formulas for this kind of statute, why are you
injured by this one? I think that's the thrust of the
question.
MR. REIN: Well, I think that if -- if
Congress has the power to look at jurisdictions like
Shelby County, individually and without regard to how
they stand against other States -- other counties, other
States, in other words, what is the discrimination here
among the jurisdictions, and after thoroughly
considering each and every one comes up with a list and
says this list greatly troubles us, that might present a
vehicle for saying this is a way to sort out the covered
jurisdictions --
JUSTICE ALITO: Suppose Congress passed a
law that said, everyone whose last name begins with A
shall pay a special tax of $1,000 a year. And let's say
that tax is challenged by somebody whose last name
begins with A. Would it be a defense to that challenge
that for some reason this particular person really
should pay a $1,000 penalty that people with a different
last name do not pay?
MR. REIN: No, because that would just
invent another statute, and this is all a debate as to
whether somebody might invent a statute which has a
formula that is rational.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I was about to ask a
similar question. If someone is acquitted of a Federal
crime, would it -- would the prosecution be able to say,
well, okay, he didn't commit this crime, but Congress
could have enacted a different statute which he would
have violated in this case. Of course, you wouldn't
listen to that, would you?
MR. REIN: No, I agree with you.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: The problem with those
hypotheticals is obvious that it starts from a predicate
that the application has no basis in any record, but
there's no question that Alabama was rightly included in
the original Voting Rights Act. There's no challenge to
the reauthorization acts. The only question is whether
a formula should be applied today. And the point is
that the record is replete with evidence to show that
you should.
MR. REIN: Well, I mean --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It's not like there's
some made-up reason for why the $1,000 is being applied
to you or why a different crime is going to be charged
against you. It's a real record as to what Alabama has
done to earn its place on the list.
MR. REIN: Justice Sotomayor, with all
respect, the question whether Alabama was properly
placed under the act in 1964 was -- it was answered in
Katzenbach because it came under a formula then deemed
to be rational in theory and in practice.
There's no independent determination by the
Congress that Alabama singly should be covered.
Congress has up -- you know, has readopted the formula
and it is the formula that covers Alabama and thus
Shelby County --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, the reason for the
formula -- of course, part of the formula looks back to
what happened in 1965. And it says are you a
jurisdiction that did engage in testing and had low
turnout or -- or low registration? Now, that isn't true
of Alabama today.
MR. REIN: That's correct. That's correct.
JUSTICE BREYER: So when Congress in fact
reenacted this in 2005, it knew what it was doing was
picking out Alabama. It understood it was picking out
Alabama, even though the indicia are not -- I mean, even
though they're not engaging in that particular thing.
But the underlying evil is the discrimination. So the
closest analogy I could think of is imagine a State has
a plant disease and in 1965 you can recognize the
presence of that disease, which is hard to find, by a
certain kind of surface movement or plant growing up.
Now, it's evolved. So by now, when we use
that same formula, all we're doing is picking out that
State. But we know one thing: The disease is still
there in the State. Because this is a question of
renewing a statute that in fact has worked. And so the
question I guess is, is it rational to pick out at least
some of those States? And to go back to Justice
Sotomayor's question, as long as it's rational in at
least some instances directly to pick out those States,
at least one or two of them, then doesn't the statute
survive a facial challenge? That's the question.
MR. REIN: Thank you. Justice Breyer, a
couple of things are important. The Court said in
Northwest Austin, an opinion you joined, "Current needs
have to generate the current burden." So what happened
in 1965 in Alabama, that Alabama itself has said was a
disgrace, doesn't justify a current burden.
JUSTICE BREYER: But this is then the
question, does it justify? I mean, this isn't a
question of rewriting the statute. This is a question
of renewing a statute that by and large has worked.
MR. REIN: Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE BREYER: And if you have a statute
that sunsets, you might say, I don't want it to sunset
if it's worked, as long as the problem is still there to
some degree. That's the question of rationality. Isn't
that what happened?
MR. REIN: If you base it on the findings of
1965. I could take the decision in City of Rome, which
follows along that line. We had a huge problem at the
first passage of the Voting Rights Act and the Court was
tolerant of Congress's decision that it had not yet been
cured. There were vestiges of discrimination.
So when I look at those statistics today and
look at what Alabama has in terms of black registration
and turnout, there's no resemblance. We're dealing with
a completely changed situation --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: You keep -- you keep --
MR. REIN: -- to which if you apply those
metrics -- excuse me.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rein, you keep
emphasizing over and over again in your brief,
registration and you said it a couple of times this
morning. Congress was well aware that registration was
no longer the problem. This legislative record is
replete with what they call second generation devices.
Congress said up front: We know that the registration
is fine. That is no longer the problem. But the
discrimination continues in other forms.
MR. REIN: Let me speak to that because I
think that that highlights one of the weaknesses here.
On the one hand, Justice Breyer's questioning, well,
could Congress just continue based on what it found in
'65 and renew? And I think your question shows it's a
very different situation. Congress is not continuing
its efforts initiated in 1975 to allow people --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, the reason
Section 5 was created was because States were moving
faster than litigation permitted to catch the new forms
of discriminatory practices that were being developed.
As the courts struck down one form, the States would
find another. And basically, Justice Ginsburg calls it
secondary. I don't know that I'd call anything
secondary or primary. Discrimination is discrimination.
And what Congress said is it continues, not
in terms of voter numbers, but in terms of examples of
other ways to disenfranchise voters, like moving a
voting booth from a convenient location for all voters
to a place that historically has been known for
discrimination. I think that's an example taken from
one of the Section 2 and 5 cases from Alabama.
MR. REIN: Justice Sotomayor --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I mean, I don't know
what the difference is except that this Court or some
may think that secondary is not important. But the form
of discrimination is still discrimination if Congress
has found it to be so.
MR. REIN: When Congress is addressing a new
evil, it needs then -- and assuming it can find this
evil to a level justifying --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But that's not --
MR. REIN: -- the extraordinary remedy --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- what it did with
Section 5. It said we can't keep up with the way States
are doing it.
MR. REIN: I think we're dealing with two
different questions. One is was that kind of remedy, an
unusual remedy, never before and never after invoked by
the Congress, putting States into a prior restraint in
the exercise of their core sovereign functions, was that
justified? And in Katzenbach, the Court said we're
confronting an emergency in the country, we're
confronting people who will not, who will not honor the
Fifteenth Amendment and who will use --
JUSTICE KAGAN: And in 1986 -- or excuse me,
2006 -- Congress went back to the problem, developed a
very substantial record, a 15,000-page legislative
record, talked about what problems had been solved,
talked about what problems had yet to be solved, and
decided that, although the problem had changed, the
problem was still evident enough that the act should
continue.
It's hard to see how Congress could have
developed a better and more thorough legislative record
than it did, Mr. Rein.
MR. REIN: Well, I'm not questioning whether
Congress did its best. The question is whether what
Congress found was adequate to invoke this unusual
remedy.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Indeed, Congress must have
found that the situation was even clearer and the
violations even more evident than originally because,
originally, the vote in the Senate, for example, was
something like 79 to 18, and in the 2006 extension, it
was 98 to nothing. It must have been even clearer in
2006 that these States were violating the Constitution.
Do you think that's true?
MR. REIN: No. I think the Court has
to --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that sounds like a
good argument to me, Justice Scalia. It was clear to 98
Senators, including every Senator from a covered State,
who decided that there was a continuing need for this
piece of legislation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Or decided that perhaps
they'd better not vote against it, that there's nothing,
that there's no -- none of their interests in voting
against it.
JUSTICE BREYER: I don't know what they're
thinking exactly, but it seems to me one might
reasonably think this: It's an old disease, it's gotten
a lot better, a lot better, but it's still there. So if
you had a remedy that really helped it work, but it
wasn't totally over, wouldn't you keep that remedy?
MR. REIN: Well --
JUSTICE BREYER: Or would you not at least
say that a person who wants to keep that remedy, which
has worked for that old disease which is not yet dead,
let's keep it going. Is that an irrational decision?
MR. REIN: That is a hypothetical that
doesn't address what happened because what happened is
the old disease, limiting people's right to register and
vote, to have --
JUSTICE BREYER: No, I'm sorry. The old
disease is discrimination under the Fifteenth Amendment,
which is abridging a person's right to vote because of
color or race.
MR. REIN: But the focus of the Congress in
1965 and in Katzenbach in 1964 and in Katzenbach was on
registration and voting, precluding --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: It was on voter dilution
as well. It had already evolved away from that, or
started to.
MR. REIN: I beg your pardon, but I think,
Justice Sotomayor, that this Court has never decided
that the Fifteenth Amendment governs vote dilution. It
has said the Fourteenth Amendment does, but the original
enactment was under the Fifteenth Amendment.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, the Fifteenth
Amendment says "denial or abridgement." What would
"abridgement" mean except for dilution?
MR. REIN: Well, "abridgement" might mean,
for example, I let you vote in one election, but not in
another; for example, separate primary rules from
election rules. Abridgement can be done in many ways.
I think dilution is a different concept.
We're not saying that dilution isn't covered by the
Fourteenth Amendment, but I was responding to
Justice Breyer in saying there was an old disease and
that disease is cured. If you want to label it
"disease" and generalize it, you can say, well, the new
disease is still a disease.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, some of --
MR. REIN: But I think that's not what
happened.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Some of the questions
asked to this point I think mirror what the government
says toward the end of its brief, page 48 and page 49.
It's rather proud of this reverse engineering: We
really knew it was some specific States we were
interested in, and so we used these old categories to
cover that State.
Is that a methodology that in your view is
appropriate under the test of congruence and -- and
proportionality?
MR. REIN: No, I think it is not. First of
all, I don't accept that it was, quote, "reverse
engineered." I think it was just, as Justice Breyer
indicated, continued because it was there. If you look
at what was done and was approved in 1964, what Congress
said, well, here are the problem areas that we detect.
We've examined them in detail. We've identified the
characteristics that would let somebody say, yes, that's
where the discrimination is ripe. They're using a
tester device. The turnout is below the national
average by a substantial margin. That spells it out and
we have a relief valve in the then-existing bailout. So
it was all very rational.
Here you'd have to say is the finding with
respect to every State -- Alaska, Arizona, the covered
jurisdictions in New York City -- is the designation of
them congruent to the problem that you detect in each
one? Even assuming -- and we don't accept -- that any
of these problems require the kind of extraordinary
relief, what's the congruence and what's the
proportionality of this remedy to the violation you
detect State by State.
So merely saying it's reverse engineered,
first of all it says, well, Congress really thought
about it and said, we made up a list in our heads and,
gee whiz, this old formula miraculously covered the
list. There's no record that that happened.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, are you --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose -- suppose there
were and suppose that's the rationale because that's
what I got from the government's brief and what I'm
getting -- getting from some of the questions from the
bench. What is wrong with that?
MR. REIN: If -- if there was a record
sufficient for each of those States to sacrifice
their -- their inherent core power to preclearance, to
prior restraint, I think that you certainly could argue
that, well, how Congress described them, as long as it's
rational, might work. But I don't think that we have
that record here, so --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, and -- and I don't
know why -- why you even go that far. I don't know why
under the equal footing doctrine it would be proper to
just single out States by name, and if that, in effect,
is what is being done, that seemed to me equally
improper. But you don't seem to make that argument.
MR. REIN: Well, I think that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought -- I thought the
same thing. I thought it's sort of extraordinary to say
Congress can just pick out, we want to hit these eight
States, it doesn't matter what formula we use; so long
as we want to hit these eight States, that's good enough
and that makes it constitutional. I doubt that that's
true.
MR. REIN: Justice Scalia, I agree with
that. What I was saying here is that Congress did --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why? Why does Congress
have to fix any problem immediately?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I would like to hear the
answer to the question.
MR. REIN: Okay. The answer,
Justice Kennedy, is Congress cannot arbitrarily pick out
States. Congress has to treat each State with equal
dignity. It has to examine all the States. The
teaching of Katzenbach is that when Congress has done
that kind of examination, it can devise a formula even
if it understands that that formula will not apply
across all 50 States.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, the formula that
has --
MR. REIN: So we accept Katzenbach. But in
terms of just picking out States and saying, I'm going
to look at you and I'm going to look at you, no, that --
that does not protect the equal dignity of the States.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Rein, the formula
that -- that is applied right now, under that formula
covered jurisdictions, which have less than 25 percent
of the nation's total population, they account for
56 percent of all successful published Section 2
lawsuits.
If you do that on a per capita basis, the
successful Section 2 lawsuits, four times higher in
covered jurisdictions than in noncovered jurisdictions.
So the formula -- you can -- you know, say maybe this
district shouldn't be covered, maybe this one should be
covered.
The formula seems to be working pretty well
in terms of going after the actual violations on the
ground and who's committing them.
MR. REIN: There are -- there are two
fallacies, Justice Kagan, in -- in that statement.
Number one is treating the covered jurisdictions as some
kind of entity, a lump: Let us treat them. And as
Judge Williams did in his dissent, if you look at them
one by one, giving them their equal dignity, you won't
reach the same result.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, all formulas are
underinclusive and all formulas are overinclusive.
Congress has developed this formula and has continued it
in use that actually seems to work pretty well in
targeting the places where there are the most successful
Section 2 lawsuits, where there are the most violations
on the ground that have been adjudicated.
MR. REIN: Well, if -- if you look at the
analysis State by State done by Judge Williams, that
isn't true. Congress has picked out some States that
fall at the top and some that do not, and there are
other States like Illinois or Tennessee, and I don't
think they deserve preclearance, that clearly have
comparable records.
And second, dividing by population may make
it look it look better, but it is irrational. It is not
only irrational when we object to it, but note that in
the brief of the Harris Respondent they say it's
irrational because, after all, that makes Delaware, a
small State, look worse on a list of who are the primary
violators. It's not a useful metric. It may make a
nice number. But there is no justification for that
metric.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And it happens not to be
the method that Congress selected.
MR. REIN: Correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: If they selected that, you
could say they used a rationale that works. But just
because they picked some other rationale, which happens
to produce this result, doesn't seem to me very
persuasive.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Your time is --
MR. REIN: Thank you.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- about ready to
expire for the rebuttal period. But I do have this
question: Can you tell me -- it seems to me that the
government can very easily bring a Section 2 suit and as
part of that ask for bail-in under Section 3. Are those
expensive, time-consuming suits? Do we have anything in
the record that tells us or anything in the bar's
experience that you could advise us?
MR. REIN: Well --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Is this an effective
remedy?
MR. REIN: It is -- number one, it is
effective. There are preliminary injunctions. It
depends on the kind of dispute you have. Some of them
are very complex, and it would be complex if somebody
brought -- a State brought a Section 5 challenge in a
three-judge court saying the attorney general's denied
me preclearance. So it's the complexity of the
question, not the nature of Section 2.
And might I say, if you look at the Voting
Rights Act, one thing that really stands out is you are
up against States with entrenched discriminatory
practices in their law. The remedy Congress put in
place for those States was Section 2. And all across
the country, when you talk about equal sovereignty, if
there is a problem in Ohio the remedy is Section 2. So
if Congress thought that Section 2 was an inadequate
remedy, it could look to the specifics of Section 2 and
say, maybe we ought to put timetables in there or modify
it.
But that's not what happened. They
reenacted Section 2 just as it stood. So I think that
Section 2 covers even more broadly because it deals with
results, which the Court has said is broader than
effects. It's an effective remedy, and I think at this
point, given the record, given the history, the right
thing to do is go forward under Section 2 and remove the
stigma of prior restraint and preclearance from the
States and the unequal application based on data that
has no better history than 1972.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Rein, I just remind
because it's something we said about equal footing, in
Katzenbach the Court said, "The doctrine of the equality
of the States invoked by South Carolina does not bar
this approach, for that doctrine applies only to the
terms upon which States are admitted to the Union and
not to the remedies for local evils which have
subsequently appeared." That's what -- has the Court
changed that interpretation?
MR. REIN: I think that that referred in
Katzenbach -- I'm familiar with that statement. It
referred to the fact that once you use a formula you are
not -- you are selecting out. The Court felt the
formula was rational in theory and practice and
therefore it didn't, on its face, remove the equality of
the States. They were all assessed under the same two
criteria. Some passed, some did not. But I think that
that really doesn't mask the need for equal treatment of
the sovereign States.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm going to have a hard
time with that because you can't be suggesting that the
government sees a problem in one or more States and
decides it's going to do something for them and not for
others, like emergency relief, and that that somehow
violates the equal footing doctrine. You can't treat
States the same because their problems are different,
their populations are different, their needs are
different. Everything is different about the States.
MR. REIN: Well, I think when Congress uses
the powers delegated under Article I, Section 8, it has
substantial latitude in how it exercises the power. We
are talking about remedial power here. We are talking
about overriding powers that are reserved to the States
to correct abuse. When Congress does that, it has to
treat them equally. It can't say --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Would you tell me what
you think is left of the rational means test in
Katzenbach and City of Rome? Do you think the City of
Boerne now controls both Fourteen -- the Fourteenth and
the Fifteenth Amendment and how we look at any case that
arises under them?
MR. REIN: Justice Sotomayor, I think that
the two tests have a lot in common because in City of
Boerne, the Katzenbach decision was pointed out as a
model of asking the questions that congruence in
proportionality asked us to address. Number one, how
does this remedy meet findings of constitutional
violation? You've got to ask that question. They asked
that question in Katzenbach. What is the relation
between the two?
And then I think you have to ask the
question: All right -- you know, is this killing a fly
with a sledgehammer, a fair question because when you
start to invade core functions of the States, I think
that a great deal of caution and care is required. So I
think that the rational basis test, the McCulloch test,
still applies to delegated powers.
But here on the one hand the Solicitor
defends under the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendment
saying, well, if something doesn't violate the
Fifteenth, it violates the Fourteenth. And the Court's
precedent under the Fourteenth Amendment is very clear
that the City of Boerne congruence and proportionality
test applies. The Court has applied it, but I don't
think we -- we wouldn't really need to get that far
because we believe that if you examine it under
McCullough, just as they did in Katzenbach, it would
fail as well.
If there are no further questions.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Our questions have intruded on your rebuttal
time, so we'll give you the 5 minutes and a commensurate
increase in the General's time.
General Verrilli?
ORAL ARGUMENTS OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
ON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL RESPONDENT
GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
There's a fundamental point that needs to be
made at the outset. Everyone acknowledges, Petitioner,
its amici, this Court in Northwest Austin, that the
Voting Rights Act made a huge difference in transforming
the culture of blatantly racist vote suppression that
characterized parts of this country for a century.
Section 5 preclearance was the principal
engine of that progress. And it has always been true
that only a tiny fraction of submissions under Section 5
result in objections. So that progress under Section 5
that follows from that has been as a result of the
deterrence and the constraint Section 5 imposes on
States and subjurisdictions and not on the actual
enforcement by means of objection.
Now, when Congress faced the question
whether to reauthorize Section 5 in 2006, it had to
decide whether the -- whether it could be confident that
the attitudes and behaviors in covered jurisdictions had
changed enough that that very effective constraint and
deterrence could be confidently removed. And Congress
had, as Judge Kagan identified earlier, a very
substantial record of continuing need before it when
it --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I ask you just a
little bit about that record? Do you know how many
submissions there were for preclearance to the Attorney
General in 2005?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't know the precise
number, but many thousands. That's true.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: 3700. Do you know
how many objections the Attorney General lodged?
GENERAL VERRILLI: There was one in that
year.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: One, so one out of
3700.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But I think -- but,
Mr. Chief Justice, that is why I made the point a minute
ago that the key way in which Section 5 -- it has to be
the case, everyone agrees, that the significant progress
that we've made is principally because of Section 5 of
the Voting Rights Act. And it has always been true that
only a tiny fraction of submissions result in
objections.
JUSTICE SCALIA: That will always be true
forever into the future. You could always say, oh,
there has been improvement, but the only reason there
has been improvement are these extraordinary procedures
that deny the States sovereign powers, which the
Constitution preserves to them. So, since the only
reason it's improved is because of these procedures, we
must continue those procedures in perpetuity.
GENERAL VERRILLI: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that the argument you
are making?
GENERAL VERRILLI: That is not the argument.
We do not think that --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought that was the
argument you were just making.
GENERAL VERRILLI: It is not. Congress
relied on far more on just the deterrent effect. There
was a substantial record based on the number of
objections, the types of objections, the findings of --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a different
argument.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But they are related.
They're related.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Just to get the --
do you know which State has the worst ratio of white
voter turnout to African American voter turnout?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I do not.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Massachusetts. Do
you know what has the best, where African American
turnout actually exceeds white turnout? Mississippi.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes, Mr. Chief Justice.
But Congress recognized that expressly in the findings
when it reauthorized the act in 2006. It said that the
first generation problems had been largely dealt with,
but there persisted significant --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Which State has the
greatest disparity in registration between white and
African American?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I do not know that.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Massachusetts.
Third is Mississippi, where again the African American
registration rate is higher than the white registration
rate.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But when Congress -- the
choice Congress faced when it -- Congress wasn't writing
on a blank slate in 2006, Mr. Chief Justice. It faced a
choice. And the choice was whether the conditions were
such that it could confidently conclude that this
deterrence and this constraint was no longer needed, and
in view of the record of continuing need and in view of
that history, which we acknowledge is not sufficient on
its own to justify reenactment, but it's certainly
relevant to the judgment Congress made because it
justifies Congress having made a cautious choice in 2006
to keep the constraint and to keep the deterrence in
place.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, there's no question
that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, in the
reauthorization --
JUSTICE ALITO: There's no question --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: There is no question that
the Voting Rights Act has done enormous good. It's one
of the most successful statutes that Congress passed in
the twentieth century and one could probably go farther
than that.
But when Congress decided to reauthorize it
in 2006, why wasn't it incumbent on Congress under the
congruence and proportionality standard to make a new
determination of coverage? Maybe the whole country
should be covered. Or maybe certain parts of the
country should be covered based on a formula that is
grounded in up-to-date statistics.
But why -- why wasn't that required by the
congruence and proportionality standards? Suppose that
Congress in 1965 had based the coverage formula on
voting statistics from 1919, 46 years earlier. Do you
think Katzenbach would have come out the same way?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No, but what Congress did
in 2006 was different than what Congress did in 1965.
What Congress did -- Congress in 2006 was not writing on
a clean slate. The judgment had been made what the
coverage formula ought to be in 1965, this Court upheld
it four separate times over the years, and that it seems
to me the question before Congress under congruence and
proportionality or the reasonably adapted test in
McCullough -- or whatever the test is, and under the
formula in Northwest Austin is whether the judgment to
retain that geographic coverage for a sufficient
relation to the problem Congress was trying to target,
and Congress did have before it very significant
evidence about disproportionate results in Section 2
litigation in covered jurisdictions, and that, we
submit, is a substantial basis for Congress to have made
the judgment that the coverage formula should be kept in
place, particularly given that it does have a bail-in
mechanism and it does have a bailout mechanism, which
allows for tailoring over time.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: This reverse engineering
that you seem so proud of, it seems to me that that
obscures the -- the real purpose of -- of the statute.
And if Congress is going to single out separate States
by name, it should do it by name. If not, it should use
criteria that are relevant to the existing -- and
Congress just didn't have the time or the energy to do
this; it just reenacted it.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think the -- the
formula was -- was rational and effective in 1965. The
Court upheld it then, it upheld it three more times
after that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the Marshall Plan
was very good, too, the Morrill Act, the Northwest
Ordinance, but times change.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And -- but the question
is whether times had changed enough and whether the
differential between the covered jurisdictions and the
rest of the country had changed enough that Congress
could confidently make the judgment that this was no
longer needed.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Verrilli --
JUSTICE BREYER: What the question --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Verrilli, could
you respond to the question that Justice Kennedy asked
earlier, which was for why isn't Section 2 enough now?
The government could bring Section 2 claims if it seeks
privately to do. Why isn't -- he asked if it was
expensive. You heard the question, so.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Yes. With respect to --
start with Katzenbach. Katzenbach made the point that
Section 2 litigation wasn't an effective substitute for
Section 5 because what Section 5 does is shift the
burden of inertia. And there's a -- I think it is
self-evident that Section 2 cannot do the work of
Section 5.
Take one example: Polling place changes.
That in fact is the most frequent type of Section 5
submission, polling place changes. Now, changes in the
polling places at the last minute before an election can
be a source of great mischief. Closing polling places,
moving them to inconvenient locations, et cetera.
What Section 5 does is require those kinds
of changes to be pre-cleared and on a 60-day calendar,
which effectively prevents that kind of mischief. And
there is no way in the world you could use Section 2 to
effectively police those kinds of activities.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I -- I do think the
evidence is very clear that Section -- that individual
suits under Section 2 type litigation were just
insufficient and that Section 5 was utterly necessary in
1965. No doubt about that.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And I think it
remains true --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But with -- with a modern
understanding of -- of the dangers of polling place
changes, with prospective injunctions, with preliminary
injunctions, it's not clear -- and -- and with the fact
that the government itself can commence these suits,
it's not clear to me that there's that much difference
in a Section 2 suit now and preclearance. I may be
wrong about that. I don't have statistics for it.
That's why we're asking.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- I don't -- I don't
really think that that conclusion follows. I think
these under the -- there are thousands and thousands of
these under-the-radar screen changes, the polling places
and registration techniques, et cetera. And in most of
those I submit, Your Honor, the -- the cost-benefit
ratio is going to be, given the cost of this litigation,
which one of the -- one of the reasons Katzenbach said
Section 5 was necessary, is going to tilt strongly
against bringing these suits.
Even with respect to the big ticket items,
the big redistrictings, I think the logic Katzenbach
holds in that those suits are extremely expensive and
they typically result in after-the-fact litigation.
Now, it is true, and the Petitioners raised
the notion that there could be a preliminary injunction,
but I really think the Petitioner's argument that
Section 2 is a satisfactory and complete substitute for
Section 5 rests entirely on their ability to demonstrate
that preliminary injunctions can do comparable work to
what Section 5 does. They haven't made any effort to do
that. And while I don't have statistics for you, I can
tell you that the Civil Rights Division tells me that
it's their understanding that in fewer than one-quarter
of ultimately successful Section 2 suits was there a
preliminary injunction issued.
So I don't think that there's a basis,
certainly given the weighty question before this Court
of the constitutionality of this law, to the extent the
argument is that Section 2 is a valid substitute for
Section 5, I just don't think that the -- that the
Petitioners have given the Court anything that allows
the Court to reach that conclusion and of course --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Can you tell us how many
attorneys and how many staff in the Justice Department
are involved in the preclearance process? Is it 5 or
15?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It's a -- it's a very
substantial number and --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, what does that mean?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It means I don't know the
exact number, Justice Kennedy.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: Hundreds? Hundreds?
Dozens? What.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think it's dozens. And
so the -- and so it -- so it's a substantial number. It
is true in theory that those people could be used to
bring Section 2 litigation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Right.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But that doesn't answer
the mail, I submit, because it's still -- you're never
going to get at all these thousands of under-the-radar
changes and you're still going to be in the position
where the question will be whether preliminary
injunctions are available to do the job. There is no
evidence that that's true.
And I'll point out there's a certain irony
in the argument that what -- that what Petitioner wants
is to substitute Section 2 litigation of that kind for
the Section 5 process, which is much more efficient and
much more -- and much speedier, much more efficient and
much more cost effective.
JUSTICE ALITO: Then why shouldn't it apply
everywhere in the country?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, because I think
Congress made a reasonable judgment that the problem --
that in 2006, that its prior judgments, that there --
that there was more of a risk in the covered
jurisdictions continued to be validated by the Section 2
evidence.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, you do really think
there was -- that the record in 2006 supports the
proposition that -- let's just take the question of
changing the location of polling places. That's a
bigger problem in Virginia than in Tennessee, or it's a
bigger problem in Arizona than Nevada, or in the Bronx
as opposed to Brooklyn.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I think the combination
of the history, which I concede is not dispositive, but
is relevant because it suggests caution is in order and
that's a reasonable judgment on the part of Congress,
the combination of that history and the fact that there
is a very significant disproportion in successful
Section 2 results in the covered jurisdictions as
compared to the rest of the country, that Congress was
justified in concluding that there -- that it -- there
was reason to think that there continued to be a serious
enough differential problem to justify --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, the statistics that I
have before me show that in, let's say the 5 years prior
to reauthorization, the gap between success in Section 2
suits in the covered and the non-covered jurisdiction
narrowed and eventually was eliminated. Do you disagree
with that?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I think the --
the -- you have to look at it, and Congress
appropriately looked at it through a broader -- in a --
in a broader timeframe, and it made judgments. And I
think that actually, the -- the right way to look at it
is not just the population judgment that Mr. Rein was
critical of, the fact is, and I think this is in the
Katz amicus brief, that the covered jurisdictions
contain only 14 percent of the subjurisdictions in the
nation. And so 14 percent of the subjurisdictions in
the nation are generating up to 81 percent of the
successful Section 2 litigation. And I think --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: General, is it -- is
it the government's submission that the citizens in the
South are more racist than citizens in the North?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It is not, and I do not
know the answer to that, Your Honor, but I do think it
was reasonable for Congress --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, once you said
it is not, and you don't know the answer to it.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- it's not our
submission. As an objective matter, I don't know the
answer to that question. But what I do know is that
Congress had before it evidence that there was a
continuing need based on Section 5 objections, based on
the purpose-based character of those objections, based
on the disparate Section 2 rate, based on the
persistence of polarized voting, and based on a gigantic
wealth of jurisdiction-specific and anecdotal evidence,
that there was a continuing need.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: A need to do what?
GENERAL VERRILLI: To maintain the deterrent
and constraining effect of the Section 5 preclearance
process in the covered jurisdictions, and that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And not -- and not
impose it on everyone else?
GENERAL VERRILLI: And -- that's right,
given the differential in Section 2 litigation, there
was a basis for Congress to do that.
JUSTICE BREYER: So what's the answer? I
just want to be sure that I hear your answer to an
allegation, argument, an excellent argument, that's been
made, or at least as I've picked up, and that is that:
Yes, the problem was terrible; it has gotten a lot
better; it is not to some degree cured. All right? I
think there is a kind of common ground. Now then the
question is: Well, what about this statute that has a
certain formula? One response is: Yes, it has a
formula that no longer has tremendous relevance in terms
of its characteristic -- that is literacy tests. But it
still picked out nine States. So, so far, you're with
me.
So it was rational when you continue. You
know, you don't sunset it. You just keep it going.
You're not held to quite the same criteria as if you
were writing it in the first place. But it does treat
States all the same that are somewhat different.
One response to that is: Well, this is the
Fifteenth Amendment, a special amendment -- you know?
Maybe you're right. Then let's proceed State by State.
Let's look at it State by State. That's what we
normally do, not as applied.
All right. Now, I don't know how
satisfactory that answer is. I want to know what your
response is as to whether we should -- if he's right --
if he's right that there is an irrationality involved if
you were writing it today in treating State A, which is
not too discriminatorily worse than apparently
Massachusetts or something. All right? So -- so if
that's true, do we respond State by State? Or is this a
matter we should consider not as applied, but on its
face?
I just want to hear what you think about
that.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Let me give two
responses, Justice Breyer. The first is one that
focuses on the practical operation of the law and the
consequences that flow from it. I do not think that
Shelby County or Alabama ought to be able to bring a
successful facial challenge against this law on the
basis that it ought not to have covered Arizona or
Alaska. The statute has bailout mechanism. Those
jurisdictions can try to avail themselves of it. And if
they do and it doesn't work, then they -- they may very
well have an as-applied challenge that they can bring to
the law. But that doesn't justify -- given the
structure of the law and that there is a tailoring
mechanism in it, it doesn't justify Alabama --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't -- I don't
understand the distinction between facial and as-applied
when you are talking about a formula. As applied to
Shelby County, they are covered because of the formula,
so they're challenging the formula as applied to them.
And we've heard some discussion. I'm not even sure what
your position is on the formula. Is the formula
congruent and proportional today, or do you have this
reverse engineering argument?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Congress's decision in
2006 to reenact the geographic coverage was congruent
and proportional because Congress had evidence --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: To -- to the problem
or -- or was the formula congruent and proportional to
the remedy?
GENERAL VERRILLI: The Court has upheld the
formula in four different applications. So the Court
has found four different times that the formula was
congruent and proportional. And the same kinds of
problems that Mr. Rein is identifying now were --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- I'm sorry.
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- were true even back in
City of Rome because of course the tests and devices
were eliminated by the statute, so no -- no jurisdiction
could have tests and devices. And City of Rome itself
said that the registration problems had been very
substantially ameliorated by then, but there were
additional kinds of problems. The ascent of these
second-generation problems was true in City of Rome as a
justification that made it congruent and proportional.
And we submit that it's still true now, that
Congress wasn't writing on a blank slate in 2006.
Congress was making a judgment about whether this
formula, which everyone agrees, and in fact Mr. Rein's
case depends on the proposition that Section 5 was a big
success.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, maybe it was making
that judgment, Mr. Verrilli. But that's -- that's a
problem that I have. This Court doesn't like to get
involved in -- in racial questions such as this one.
It's something that can be left -- left to Congress.
The problem here, however, is suggested by
the comment I made earlier, that the initial enactment
of this legislation in a -- in a time when the need for
it was so much more abundantly clear was -- in the
Senate, there -- it was double-digits against it. And
that was only a 5-year term.
Then, it is reenacted 5 years later, again
for a 5-year term. Double-digits against it in the
Senate. Then it was reenacted for 7 years. Single
digits against it. Then enacted for 25 years, 8 Senate
votes against it.
And this last enactment, not a single vote
in the Senate against it. And the House is pretty much
the same. Now, I don't think that's attributable to the
fact that it is so much clearer now that we need this.
I think it is attributable, very likely attributable, to
a phenomenon that is called perpetuation of racial
entitlement. It's been written about. Whenever a
society adopts racial entitlements, it is very difficult
to get out of them through the normal political
processes.
I don't think there is anything to be gained
by any Senator to vote against continuation of this act.
And I am fairly confident it will be reenacted in
perpetuity unless -- unless a court can say it does not
comport with the Constitution. You have to show, when
you are treating different States differently, that
there's a good reason for it.
That's the -- that's the concern that those
of us who -- who have some questions about this statute
have. It's -- it's a concern that this is not the kind
of a question you can leave to Congress. There are
certain districts in the House that are black districts
by law just about now. And even the Virginia Senators,
they have no interest in voting against this. The State
government is not their government, and they are going
to lose -- they are going to lose votes if they do not
reenact the Voting Rights Act.
Even the name of it is wonderful: The
Voting Rights Act. Who is going to vote against that in
the future?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You have an extra 5
minutes.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you. I may need it
for that question.
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: Justice Scalia, there's a
number of things to say. First, we are talking about
the enforcement power that the Constitution gives to the
Congress to make these judgments to ensure protection of
fundamental rights. So this is -- this is a situation
in which Congress is given a power which is expressly
given to it to act upon the States in their sovereign
capacity. And it cannot have been lost on the framers
of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments that the
power Congress was conferring on them was likely to be
exercised in a differential manner because it was, the
power was conferred to deal with the problems in the
former States of the Confederacy.
So with respect to the constitutional grant
of power, we do think it is a grant of power to Congress
to make these judgments, now of course subject to review
by this Court under the standard of Northwest Austin,
which we agree is an appropriate standard. That's the
first point.
The second point is I do -- I do say with
all due respect, I think it would be extraordinary to --
to look behind the judgment of Congress as expressed in
the statutory findings, and -- and evaluate the judgment
of Congress on the basis of that sort of motive
analysis, as opposed to --
JUSTICE SCALIA: We looked behind it in
Boerne. I'm not talking about dismissing it. I'm --
I'm talking about looking at it to see whether it makes
any sense.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And -- but -- but I do
think that the deference that Congress is owed, as City
of Boerne said, "much deference" -- Katzenbach said
"much deference." That deference is appropriate because
of the nature of the power that has been conferred here
and because, frankly, of the superior institutional
competence of Congress to make these kinds of judgments.
These are judgments that assess social conditions.
These are predictive judgments about human behavior and
they're predictive judgments about social conditions and
human behavior about something that the people in
Congress know the most about, which is voting and the
political process.
And I would also say I understand your point
about entrenchment, Justice Scalia, but certainly with
respect to the Senate, you just can't say that it's in
everybody's interests -- that -- that the enforcement of
Section 5 is going to make it easier for some of those
Senators to win and it's going to make it harder for
some of those Senators to win. And yet they voted
unanimously in favor of the statute.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you think the
preclearance device could be enacted for the entire
United States?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I don't think there is a
record that would substantiate that. But I do think
Congress was --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And that is because that
there is a federalism interest in each State being
responsible to ensure that it has a political system
that acts in a democratic and a civil and a decent and a
proper and a constitutional way.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And we agree with that,
we respect that, we acknowledge that Northwest
Austin requires an inquiry into that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But if -- if Alabama wants
to have monuments to the heros of the Civil Rights
Movement, if it wants to acknowledge the wrongs of its
past, is it better off doing that if it's an own
independent sovereign or if it's under the trusteeship
of the United States government?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Of course it would be
better in the former situation. But with all due
respect, Your Honor, everyone agrees that it was
appropriate for -- for Congress to have exercised this
express constitutional authority when it did in 1965,
and everybody agrees that it was the -- was the exercise
of that authority that brought about the situation where
we can now argue about whether it's still necessary.
And the point, I think, is of fundamental
importance here is that that history remains relevant.
What Congress did was make a cautious choice in 2006
that given the record before it and given the history,
the more prudent course was to maintain the deterrent
and constraining effect of Section 5, even given the
federalism costs because, after all, what it protects is
a right of fundamental importance that the Constitution
gives Congress the express authority to protect through
appropriate legislation.
JUSTICE ALITO: Before your time expires, I
would like to make sure I understand your position on
this as-applied versus facial issue. Is it your
position that this would be a different case if it were
brought by, let's say, a county in Alaska as opposed to
Shelby County, Alabama?
GENERAL VERRILLI: No. Not -- not -- no.
Let me just try to articulate clearly what our -- what
our position is. They've brought a facial challenge.
We -- we recognize that it's a facial challenge.
We're defending it as a facial challenge,
but our point is that the facial challenge can't succeed
because they are able to point out that there may be
some other jurisdictions that ought not to be
appropriately covered, and that's especially true
because there is a tailoring mechanism in the statute.
And if the tailoring mechanism doesn't work, then
jurisdictions that could make such a claim may well have
an as-applied challenge. That's how we feel.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Adegbile?
ORAL ARGUMENT BY DEBO P. ADEGBILE
ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENTS BOBBY PIERSON, ET AL.
MR. ADEGBILE: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
The extensive record supporting the renewal of
the preclearance provisions of the Voting Rights Act
illustrates two essential points about the nature and
continuing aspects of voting discrimination in the
affected areas. The first speaks to this question of
whether Section 2 was adequate standing alone.
As our brief demonstrates, in Alabama and in many
of the covered jurisdictions, Section 2 victories often
need Section 5 to realize the benefits of the -- of the
ruling in the Section 2 case. That is to say, that
these measures act in tandem to protect minority
communities, and we've seen it in a number of cases.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's true in every
State, isn't it?
MR. ADEGBILE: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I mean -- you know, I don't
think anybody is contesting that it's more effective if
you use Section 5. The issue is why just in these
States. That's it.
MR. ADEGBILE: Fair enough. It's beyond a
question of being true in any place. Our brief shows
that specifically in the covered jurisdictions, there is
a pattern, a demonstrated pattern of Section 2 and 5
being used in tandem whereas in other jurisdictions,
most of the Section 2 cases are one-off examples.
We point to a whole number of examples.
Take for example Selma, Alabama. Selma, Alabama in the
1990s, not in the 1960s but in the 1990s, had a series
of objections and Section 2 activity and observers all
that were necessary to continue to give effect to the
minority inclusion principle that Section 5 was passed
to vindicate in 1965.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But a Section 2 case can,
in effect, have an order for bail-in, correct me if I'm
wrong, under Section 3 and then you basically have a
mini -- something that replicates Section 5.
MR. ADEGBILE: The bail-in is available --
bail-in is available if there's an actual finding of a
constitutional violation. It has been used in -- in a
number of circumstances. The United States brief has an
appendix that points to those. One of the recent ones
was in Port Chester, New York, if memory serves. But
it's quite clear that the pattern in the covered
jurisdictions is such that the repetitive nature of
discrimination in those places -- take, for example, the
case in LULAC.
After this Court ruled that the
redistricting plan, after the 2000 round of
redistricting, bore the mark of intentional
discrimination, in the remedial election, the State of
Texas tried to shorten and constrain the early voting
period for purposes of denying the Latino community of
the opportunity to have the benefits of the ruling.
What we've seen in Section 2 cases is that
the benefits of discrimination vest in incumbents who
would not be there, but for the discriminatory plan.
And Congress, and specifically in the House Report, I
believe it's page 57, found that Section 2 continues to
be an inadequate remedy to address the problem of these
successive violations.
Another example that makes this point very
clearly is in the 1990s in Mississippi. There was an
important Section 2 case brought, finally after
100 years, to break down the dual registration system
that had a discriminatory purpose. When Mississippi
went to implement the National Voter Registration Act,
it tried to bring back dual registration, and it was
Section 5 -- Section 5 enforcement action that was able
to knock it down.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do you agree with
the reverse engineering argument that the United States
has made today?
MR. ADEGBILE: I would frame it slightly
differently, Chief Justice Roberts. My understanding is
that the history bears some importance in the context of
the reauthorizations, but that Congress in -- in none of
the reauthorizations stopped with the historical
backward look. It takes cognizance of the experience,
but it also looks to see what the experience has been on
the ground. And what Congress saw in 2006 is that there
was a surprisingly high number of continuing objections
after the 1982 reauthorization period and that --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I guess -- I guess
the question is whether or not that disparity is
sufficient to justify the differential treatment under
Section 5. Once you take away the formula, if you think
it has to be reverse engineered and -- and not simply
justified on its own, then it seems to me you have a
much harder test to justify the differential treatment
under Section 5.
MR. ADEGBILE: This Court in Northwest
Austin said that it needs to be sufficiently related,
and I think there are two principal sources of evidence.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, we also said
congruent and proportional.
MR. ADEGBILE: Indeed. Indeed. I don't
understand those things to be unrelated. I think that
they're part of the same, same test, same evaluative
mechanism. The idea is, is Congress -- the first
question is, is Congress remedying something or is it
creating a new right. That's essentially what Boerne is
getting to, is Congress trying to go -- do an
end-around, a back doorway to expand the Constitution.
We know in this area Congress is trying to implement the
Fifteenth Amendment and the history tells us something
about that. But specifically to the question --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, the Fifteenth
Amendment is limited to intentional discrimination, and,
of course, the preclearance requirement is not so
limited, right?
MR. ADEGBILE: That's correct. But this
Court's cases have held that Congress, in proper
exercise of its remedial powers, can reach beyond the --
the core of the intentional discrimination with
prophylactic effect when they have demonstrated that a
substantial problem exists.
The -- the two things that speak to this
issue about the disparity in coverage and continuing to
cover these jurisdictions, there are two major inputs.
The first is the Section 5 activity. The Section 5
activity shows that the problem persists. It's a range
of different obstacles, and Section 5 was passed to
reach the next discriminatory thing. The case in --
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Section 5 -- the
Section 5 activity may show that there's a problem in
the jurisdictions covered by Section 5, but it says
nothing about the presence or absence of similar
problems in noncovered jurisdictions, isn't that right?
MR. ADEGBILE: Absolutely, Justice Alito.
JUSTICE ALITO: All right.
MR. ADEGBILE: And so I come to my second
category. The second category, of course, is the piece
of the Voting Rights Act that has national application,
Section 2. And what the evidence in this case shows,
and it was before Congress, is that the concentration of
Section 2 successes in the covered jurisdictions is
substantially more. Justice Kagan said that it was four
times more adjusting for population data.
The fact of the matter is that there is
another piece of evidence in the record in this case
where Peyton McCrary looks at all of the Section
2 cases, and what he shows is that the directional
sense, that the Ellen Katz study pointed to dramatically
understates the disparity under Section 2. And so
he found that 81 percent --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think all of the
noncovered States are worse in that regard than the nine
covered States, is that correct?
MR. ADEGBILE: Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Every -- every one of them
is worse.
MR. ADEGBILE: Justice Scalia, it's -- it's
a fair question, and -- and I was speaking to the
aggregate --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's not just a fair one,
it's the crucial question. Congress has selected these
nine States. Now, is there some good reason for
selecting these nine?
MR. ADEGBILE: What we see in the evidence
is that of the top eight States with section --
favorable Section 2 outcomes, seven of them, seven of
them are the covered jurisdictions. The eighth was
bailed in under the other part of the mechanism that, as
Justice Kennedy points out, can bring in some
jurisdictions that have special problems in voting. And
so we think that that points to the fact that this is
not a static statute, it's a statute that is --
JUSTICE BREYER: Yes, but his point, I think
the point is this: If you draw a red line around the
States that are in, at least some of those States have a
better record than some of the States that are out. So
in 1965, well, we have history. We have 200 years or
perhaps of slavery. We have 80 years or so of legal
segregation. We have had 41 years of this statute. And
this statute has helped, a lot.
So therefore Congress in 2005 looks back and
says don't change horses in the middle of the stream
because we still have a ways to go.
Now the question is, is it rational to do
that? And people could differ on that. And one thing
to say is, of course this is aimed at States. What do
you think the Civil War was about? Of course it was
aimed at treating some States differently than others.
And at some point that historical and practical
sunset/no sunset, renew what worked type of
justification runs out. And the question, I think, is
has it run out now?
And now you tell me when does it run out?
What is the standard for when it runs out? Never?
That's something you have heard people worried about.
Does it never run out? Or does it run out, but not yet?
Or do we have a clear case where at least it doesn't run
out now?
Now, I would like you to address that.
MR. ADEGBILE: Fair enough, Justice Breyer.
I think that the -- what the evidence shows before
Congress is that it hasn't run out yet. The whole
purpose of this act is that we made progress and
Congress recognized the progress that we made. And, for
example, they took away the examiner provision which was
designed to address the registration problem.
In terms of when we are there, I think it
will be some point in the future. Our great hope is
that by the end of this next reauthorization we won't be
there. Indeed, there is an overlooked provision that
says in 15 years, which is now 9 years from where I
stand here today before you, Congress should go back and
look and see if it's still necessary.
So we don't think that this needs to be
there in perpetuity. But based on the record and a 2011
case in which a Federal judge in Alabama cited this
Court's opinion in Northwest Austin -- there were
legislators that sit today that were caught on tape
referring to African American voters as illiterates.
Their peers were referring to them as aborigines.
And the judge, citing the Northwest Austin
case -- it's the McGregor case cited in our brief --
said that, yes, the South has changed and made progress,
but some things remain stubbornly the same and the
trained effort to deny African American voters the
franchise is part of Alabama's history to this very day.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Have there been
episodes, egregious episodes of the kind you are talking
about in States that are not covered?
MR. ADEGBILE: Absolutely, Chief Justice
Roberts.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then it
doesn't seem to help you make the point that the
differential between covered and noncovered continues to
be justified.
MR. ADEGBILE: But the great weight of
evidence -- I think that it's fair to look at -- on some
level you have to look piece by piece, State by State.
But you also have to step back and look at the great
mosaic.
This statute is in part about our march
through history to keep promises that our Constitution
says for too long were unmet. And this Court and
Congress have both taken these promises seriously. In
light of the substantial evidence that was adduced by
Congress, it is reasonable for Congress to make the
decision that we need to stay the course so that we can
turn the corner.
To be fair, this statute cannot go on
forever, but our experience teaches that six amendments
to the Constitution have had to be passed to ensure
safeguards for the right to vote, and there are many
Federal laws. They protect uniform voters, some protect
eligible voters who have not had the opportunity yet to
register. But together these protections are important
because our right to vote is what the United States
Constitution is about.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Rein, 5 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF BERT W. REIN
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER
MR. REIN: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think that the
right to vote is a racial entitlement in Section 5?
MR. REIN: No. Section -- the Fifteenth
Amendment protects the right of all to vote and --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I asked a different
question. Do you think Section 5 was voted for because
it was a racial entitlement?
MR. REIN: Well, Congress --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think there was
no basis to find that --
MR. REIN: -- was reacting -- may I say
Congress was reacting in 1964 to a problem of race
discrimination, which it thought was prevalent in
certain jurisdictions. So to that extent, as the
intervenor said, yes, it was intended to protect those
who had been discriminated against.
If I might say, I think that
Justice Breyer --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you think that racial
discrimination in voting has ended, that there is none
anywhere?
MR. REIN: I think that the world is not
perfect. No one -- we are not arguing perfectibility.
We are saying that there is no evidence that the
jurisdictions that are called out by the formula are the
places which are uniquely subject to that kind of
problem --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But shouldn't --
MR. REIN: We are not trying --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You've given me some
statistics that Alabama hasn't, but there are others
that are very compelling that it has. Why should we
make the judgment, and not Congress, about the types and
forms of discrimination and the need to remedy them?
MR. REIN: May I answer that? Number one,
we are not looking at Alabama in isolation. We are
looking at Alabama relative to other sovereign States.
And coming to Justice Kennedy's point, the question has
is Alabama, even in isolation, and those other States
reached the point where they ought to be given a chance,
subject to Section 2, subject to cases brought directly
under the Fifteenth Amendment, to exercise their
sovereignty --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How many other States
have 240 successful Section 2 and Section 5 --
MR. REIN: Again -- Justice Sotomayor, I
could parse statistics, but we are not here to try
Alabama or Massachusetts or any other State. The
question is the validity of the formula. That's what
brings Alabama in.
If you look at Alabama, it has a number of
black legislators proportionate to the black population
of Alabama. It hasn't had a Section 5 rejection in a
long period.
I want to come to Justice Breyer's point
because I think that -- I think he's on a somewhat
different wavelength, which is isn't this a mere
continuation? Shouldn't the fact that we had it before
mean, well, let's just try a little bit more until
somebody is satisfied that the problem is cured?
JUSTICE BREYER: Don't change horses. You
renew what is in the past --
MR. REIN: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- where it works, as long
as the problem isn't solved. Okay?
MR. REIN: Well, and I think the problem to
which the Voting Rights Act was addressed is solved.
You look at the registration, you look at the voting.
That problem is solved on an absolute, as well as, a
relative basis. So that's like saying if I detect that
there is a disease afoot in the population in 1965 and I
have a treatment, a radical treatment that may help cure
that disease, when it comes to 2005 and I see a new
disease or I think the old disease is gone, there is a
new one, why not apply the old treatment?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, Mr. Rein --
MR. REIN: I wouldn't --
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- that is the question,
isn't it? You said the problem has been solved. But
who gets to make that judgment really? Is it you, is it
the Court, or is it Congress?
MR. REIN: Well, it is certainly not me.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: That's a good answer. I
was hoping you would say that.
MR. REIN: But I think the question is
Congress can examine it, Congress makes a record; it is
up to the Court to determine whether the problem indeed
has been solved and whether the new problem, if there is
one --
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, that's a big, new
power that you are giving us, that we have the power now
to decide whether racial discrimination has been solved?
I did not think that that fell within our bailiwick.
MR. REIN: I did not claim that power,
Justice Kagan. What I said is, based on the record made
by the Congress, you have the power, and certainly it
was recognized in Northwest Austin, to determine whether
that record justifies the discrimination among --
JUSTICE BREYER: But there is this
difference, which I think is a key difference. You
refer to the problem as the problem identified by the
tool for picking out the States, which was literacy
tests, et cetera. But I suspect the problem was the
denial or abridgement by a State of the right to vote on
the basis of race and color. And that test was a way of
picking out places where that problem existed.
Now, if my version of the problem is the
problem, it certainly is not solved. If your version of
the problem, literacy tests, is the problem, well, you
have a much stronger case. So how, in your opinion, do
we decide what was the problem that Congress was
addressing in the Voting Rights Act?
MR. REIN: I think you look at Katzenbach
and you look at the evidence within the four corners of
the Voting Rights Act. It responds to limited
registration and voting as measured and the use of
devices.
The devices are gone. That problem has been
resolved by the Congress definitively. So it can't be
the basis for further -- further legislation.
I think what we are talking about here is
that Congress looks and says, well, we did solve that
problem. As everyone agrees, it's been very effective,
Section 5 has done its work. People are registering and
voting and, coming to Justice Scalia's point, Senators
who see that a very large group in the population has
politically wedded themselves to Section 5 are not going
to vote against it; it will do them no good.
And so I think, Justice Scalia, that
evidence that everybody votes for it would suggest some
of the efficacy of Section 5. You have a different
constituency from the constituency you had in 1964.
But coming to the point, then if you think
there is discrimination, you have to examine that
nationwide. They didn't look at some of the problems of
dilution and the like because they would have found them
all over the place in 1965. But they weren't responding
to that.
They were responding to an acute situation
where people could not register and vote. There was
intentional denial of the rights under the Fifteenth
Amendment.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
MR. REIN: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:30 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
55:19 adapted 34:16 52:24 answer 21:24,25 21:10 31:14,16
address 7:6 5:13,16,19,21 43:1,2,25 38:21 39:25
69:7 55:10 60:20 8:9,10,12 answered 11:5 52:23 55:22
addressed 6:5,6 11:11,18,22,23 anybody 4:20 ARGUMENTS
6:23,23 65:25 12:20,20 13:14 53:18 29:8
adduced 62:16 64:14,19,20,22 1:15 Article 27:13
2:9 52:22,23 Alabama's appendix 54:17 ascent 46:2
54:13 55:24 Alaska 20:4 application 5:2 28:6 36:3,6
20:7 59:10 60:21 33:15,16,17 applications 28:3 37:16
62:1,7 40:5,13 41:6 45:16 aspects 53:5
50:24 adjudicated allegation 43:3 43:23 44:7 26:24
23:17 allow 14:10 45:2,4 assuming 3:23
admit 4:21 38:23 28:15,22 as-applied 44:21
11:5 advise 25:1 amendment approach 26:13 attorney 1:7
16:5 afoot 66:4 15:23 17:24 approached 6:3 25:10 30:12,17
29:15 African 32:5,8 18:10,11,12,14 approaching attorneys 39:1
32:12 32:17,20 61:15 18:22 27:23 6:25 attributable
35:17 61:21 28:17,20 43:20 appropriate 47:4,6,6
48:3,5 after-the-fact 43:20 57:6,9 19:13 49:4,19 Austin 4:17 6:23
53:3,12 38:5 63:12 64:25 51:10,24 12:18 29:14
58:9 aggregate 59:5 69:1 appropriately 34:18 49:3
65:25 ago 3:11 30:24 amendments 41:14 52:14 50:25 56:18
agree 4:14 9:1 48:20 62:21 approved 19:19 61:13,17 67:6
58:1 agrees 30:25 amicus 41:19 51:14 54:13,14
benefits 53:10 55:18 59:15 caused 4:12 29:10 30:10,16
bringing 4:7 caution 28:13 30:20,23 32:3
15:25 better 16:8 17:5 41:14,15 century 29:17 42:21 44:25
55:18 17:11,11 24:1 broadly 7:13 33:20 45:12,20 48:7
60:2 61:8 26:8 43:6 51:4 26:1 certain 12:4 52:19,21,22,25
51:8 59:22 Bronx 40:18 34:1 39:24 55:21,25 56:9
44:18 bigger 40:17,18 burden 12:19,21 38:19 50:5 33:1,1,8 51:17
54:10,13 black 5:12,13 burdens 3:21 cetera 36:20 6:17
8:11,12 13:14 7:5 37:21 67:12 circumstances
34:2,6 blocked 4:4 call 13:25 14:17 52:9,10,11,18 42:1
Bobby 1:22 2:11 called 47:7 64:8 challenged 9:21 City 7:2 13:8
61:11 52:24 calls 14:16 challenges 6:14 20:5 27:21,21
Boerne 27:22 capacity 48:19 challenging 45:4 28:1,21 45:22
54:11 49:18 57:2 capture 5:25 change 35:18 49:17
28:14 bore 54:25 Carolina 26:12 changed 3:19,25 51:2 60:8
38:18 break 55:15 case 3:4 4:17,25 4:16 13:16 claim 52:17 67:3
44:17 Breyer 11:13,20 7:12 8:18,21 16:4 26:17 claims 36:5
63:18 12:16,22 13:1 10:10 27:23 30:5 35:20,22 clean 34:12
67:14 13:2 17:8,15 30:25 46:9 61:19 clear 16:25
17:23 18:23 52:3 53:11 changes 36:15 28:20 37:2,11
2:4,7,10 67:8 69:5,6 characteristic clearly 23:23
3:8 29:9 Breyer's 14:6 cases 6:4 14:25 43:11 52:7 55:13
63:7 65:13 53:13 54:1 characteristics closest 12:1
20:20 24:3 58:18 64:24 characterized cognizance 56:4
48:24 62:17 63:16,20 23:13 40:11 51:7,19 57:10
49:20 66:20 67:5,20 continues 14:3 62:18
confident 30:3 13:11 45:9 continuing 14:9 6:23,25 7:5,8
confidently 30:6 19:13 20:9 42:11,16 53:5 13:10 15:3,20
confronting 34:5,15 controls 27:22 25:10 26:2,11
7:25 8:6,16 9:9 consequences corner 62:19 46:13 47:15
11:10,20 13:23 consider 44:7 correct 11:19,19 54:23 56:17
38:11 16:7,11,12,14 constituency 58:24 Court's 28:19
21:20,21 22:1 16:20 31:10 costs 51:21 57:20
23:20 24:10 51:22 57:4 37:22 33:25 34:6,13
31:20 32:11,23 3:16 21:17 33:13 63:4 covered 6:9 8:23
34:6,9,10,11 54:15 9:11 20:4,15 22:16
41:2,13 42:4 constraining 35:22 40:6 40:10 41:1,9
46:6,7,15 constraint 29:23 county 1:3 3:5 44:17 45:3
49:10,17,22 contesting 53:18 9:10 11:12 58:24 59:13
38:24 57:3,5,13 continue 14:7 13:22 created 14:12
60:2,23,25 43:14 54:6 11:14 38:24 crime 10:7,8,25
35:9 28:15 29:15 37:13 discriminatory 37:5
democratic 67:9,9 4:4 14:14 dozens 39:11,12
43:6 demonstrates 34:10 43:18 18:23,24,25 due 49:7 51:8
53:8 45:16,17 47:17 19:1,1 66:4,6,7 D.C 1:9,16,19
67:13 68:25 63:13 65:15 disenfranchise
depends 25:7 differently disparate 42:13 earn 11:2
designed 61:2 dignity 22:3,13 40:21 54:6,10 57:16
6:10 11:8 directional dispute 25:7 68:7
66:21 67:6 64:24 distinction 45:1 effects 26:3
18:9 29:23 30:6 discriminated 5:6 efficient 40:2,3
33:3,9 63:24 district 22:24 effort 38:12
28:2 developed 14:14 discrimination dividing 23:25 egregious 61:24
62:18 15:25 16:8 7:24 8:5 9:12 Division 38:14 eight 3:11 4:17
68:2 57:9,15 63:21 2:6 29:8 55:1
27:7 equality 26:11 55:12 61:1 facial 6:14 12:15 finding 20:3
equally 21:9 54:1,2 52:2,8,9,10,11 findings 8:1
50:13 ERIC 1:6 excellent 43:3 fact 11:20 12:9 31:23 32:11
46:17 ESQ 1:16,18,21 15:24 37:11 40:24 fine 14:2
2:3,6,9,13 exercise 15:19 41:18 46:8 first 3:4 13:10
36:20 37:21 51:10 fail 29:1 49:5 53:6
29:25 evaluative 56:24 existing 35:9 60:21 62:8,20 flow 44:14
50:7 eventually 41:10 exists 57:17 fairly 47:14 fly 28:10
everybody 7:17 expand 57:4 fall 23:21 focus 18:2
20:12 10:20 34:22 expire 24:20 28:23 31:21 footing 21:7
37:2 39:23 expires 51:25 43:12 26:10 27:8
35:4 45:8 45:11 56:19 expressed 49:8 faster 14:13 62:21
58:10,16 59:10 expressly 32:11 favor 4:11 50:11 form 14:15 15:4
62:22 68:14 16:18 Federal 1:20 2:7 forms 14:3,13
evolved 12:5 extra 48:7 50:19 51:21 6:8,11,16,22
exact 39:8 3:20 15:11 fell 67:2 8:3,15,19,24
22:5 extrapolate 7:12 Fifteenth 15:23 11:14 12:6
28:24 66:20 7:12 18:13 27:23 22:5,6,8,14,15
examined 7:20 48:20 57:6,8 26:20,22 34:2
23:9 example 14:24 44:8 finally 55:14 45:2,3,4,6,6,13
46:8 35:12,19,25 35:7 37:23,25 heads 20:14 I
64:8 36:2,8 37:6,17 39:19,20 43:15hear 3:3 21:23 idea 56:25
39:4,7,12,17 48:1,2,5 50:8,9 43:2 44:9 identified 19:21
41:24 42:2,7 good 16:25 60:16 identifying
45:17 48:9,12 49:16 59:8 66:17 helped 17:12 Illinois 23:22
58:21 50:15,23 51:7 68:12 60:1 illiterates 61:15
52:6,19,20 gotten 17:10 heros 51:2 illustrates 53:4
58:13 generally 6:15 government higher 22:21 immediately
general's 25:10 19:6 24:22 32:21 21:22
27:22 generating 51:6 60:10 importance
41:22 government's historically 51:16,22 56:1
generation 20:20 41:25 14:23 important 12:17
geographic grant 48:25 49:1 33:5 40:21,24 63:1
35:25 36:2 grounded 34:3 37:22 42:3 inadequate
48:16 54:6 growing 12:4 hope 61:4 inappropriate
given 26:4,4 guess 12:10 56:9hoping 66:18 8:6
38:19,23 42:24 65:19 including 17:1
51:18,18,20 H 1:6 55:8 inconvenient
hand 14:6 28:16 hub 8:20 36:20
30:13 57:3 60:4 61:8 hard 12:3 16:7 hypothesis 9:4 11:8 51:5
62:20 27:3 hypothetical indicated 19:18
going 6:4 10:25 harder 50:9 8:17 17:19 indicia 11:23
17:18 22:11,12 56:15 hypotheticals individual 8:7
34:9 23:2 27:3,6 Harris 24:3 10:14 37:2
issue 4:21 8:13 7:15 8:22 9:3 65:2,4,13,19 22:1 24:17,19
J 14:11,16 15:1 4:17 Kennedy's
38:11 joined 12:18 16:14,24,25 24:7 46:4 kept 34:25
JR 1:6,18 2:6 17:4,8,15,23 60:12 key 30:24 67:9
34:12,18,25 23:11 24:9,12 justify 12:21,23 43:7 47:21
57:9,15 66:13 30:10,16,20,23 justifying 15:9 46:2 49:22
judgments 40:9 31:5,14,18,24 knew 11:21 19:9
49:2,22,23,24 32:19,25 33:11 Kagan 5:11 6:17 know 11:10 12:7
6:25 7:22 35:25 36:1,2,3 23:5,11 30:7 22:23 28:10
45:23 39:1,6,8,10,16 66:24 67:4 32:4,8,18 39:7
3:14 8:1,3 9:9 41:24 42:5,17 58:19 43:15,20,24,25
22:16,22,22 44:12,25 45:12 7:3,8,19,19 57:5
53:23,25 54:20 53:14,16,17 38:3 49:18 68:10
46:14 58:12 59:13,16 56:9,20 57:8 keep 13:17,17 Latino 55:3
42:15 59:1,3,6,15,19 33:9,9 43:15 48:11 66:16
3:9,22 4:2,9,10 62:1,3 63:4,8,9 Kennedy 8:22 9:19 25:16
47:24 lodged 30:17 mask 27:1 miraculously 64:17
23:16 21:2,15 62:14 65:6 mischief 36:19 needs 3:20 6:22
14:2 33:3 44:7 58:15 32:9,20 55:13 56:18 61:10
51:24 13:13,14 19:18 McCulloch modern 37:8 never 15:17,17
22:12,12 23:8 28:14 modify 25:22 18:9 39:18
25:13,21 27:23 28:25 34:17 51:2 new 1:21,21
65:10 49:8 56:4 61:9 61:18 13:23 18:25 20:5
41:7 67:23 68:19 15:2 18:15,16 motive 49:10 66:24
52:4 looked 5:14 39:6 53:17 movement 12:4 nice 24:7
41:14 49:12 65:17 51:3 nine 43:12 58:23
68:6 53:12 N 2:1,1 3:1 non-covered
lot 17:11,11 28:1 52:15,16 56:25 48:4 normally 43:23
11:2 Louisiana 5:1 meet 28:5 nation 41:21,22 Northwest 4:17
24:5 low 11:16,17 memory 54:18 national 19:24 6:23 12:18
method 24:10 68:19 50:24 56:17
34:23 mail 39:18 metric 24:6,8 49:20 53:4 notion 38:7
37:3,23 maintain 42:18 metrics 13:19 54:20 number 4:15
39:15 51:19 middle 60:3 necessary 37:4 5:15,16,19,20
41:23 major 57:20 million 5:15 37:25 51:14 5:21 8:9,11
making 31:15 mini 54:12 54:6 61:9 23:6 24:7 25:5
manner 48:22 54:7 28:23 30:8 31:22 39:5,8
mark 54:25 minutes 29:5 47:5 48:9 56:7 64:18
68:24 place 11:2 14:23 45:6 52:1,3,8
30:17 outset 29:13 64:6 36:18,19 37:20 powers 27:13,16
overinclusive period 4:2 24:20 40:16 54:21 28:15 31:9
54:5 23:12 55:3 56:8 64:9 67:15 57:14
overlooked 61:6 65:12 plan 35:16 54:24 practical 44:13
65:23 parse 8:2 65:5 person 9:23 55:12 59:19,20 6:7 20:25
18:23 24:23 40:23 person's 17:25 62:4 64:21,23 26:6 29:18
20:15 56:24 59:14 persuasive 65:13 68:9,17 30:12 37:14
61:22 62:12 24:16 pointed 28:2 39:2 42:19
11:24 1:17 2:4,14 3:8 points 53:4 57:10
party 4:7 38:23 political 47:10 49:24,25
67:19 26:25 33:19 47:7 36:18,19 37:9 39:21
62:25 62:22 21:14 22:1 population premises 4:15
52:4 54:19 24:14 43:4,12 41:17 58:14 58:3
29:8 52:23 peers 61:16 12:6 22:11 68:10 9:15
people 9:24 piece 17:3 58:8 27:10 pretty 3:25 23:1
62:15 10:6,16,18 7:20 8:19 10:4 rebuttal 2:12
24:5 50:22 57:13 12:12,15,23,24 20:2 21:3 63:6
prophylactic 14:8 16:11 28:14 35:13 52:9
40:9 41:7 45:13,18 46:4 33:11,15,17 rationality 8:14 record 3:17 4:11
14:2 34:5,16 47:22 48:10 7:23 64:23 20:16,23 21:4
16:4,5 proportionate 53:6,22 56:10 reacting 63:19 24:25 26:4
20:6 8:10 65:10 57:1,7 59:4,7 63:20 30:8,11 31:22
25:19 proposition 60:5,12 63:14 reading 7:19 33:4 40:14
34:20 40:15 46:9 64:21 65:7 readopted 11:10 50:16 51:18
prosecution 66:11,19 ready 24:19 53:2 58:16
43:5 10:7 questioned 3:19 real 11:1 35:6 59:22 61:11
46:13,16 prospective questioning realize 53:10 66:20 67:4,7
57:17,22 37:10 14:6 16:10 really 8:13 9:23 records 5:2
61:2 protect 22:13 questions 6:22 17:12 19:9 23:24
64:10 51:23 53:12 8:23 15:16 20:13 25:14 red 59:20
62:24,24 63:23 19:5 20:21 27:1 28:23 redistricting
protection 48:15 28:3 29:2,4 37:18 38:8 54:24,25
protections 63:1 46:14 47:20 40:13 66:13 redistrictings
protects 51:21 quite 43:16 reason 7:4,5 38:3
68:2,7 63:12 54:19 9:23 10:24 reenact 45:10
27:9 provision 61:1,6 31:7,11 41:4 reenacted 11:21
45:19,25 provisions 53:3 R 47:18 59:8 25:25 35:11
48:23 prudent 51:19 R 3:1 reasonable 40:8 46:22,24 47:14
59:16 published 22:18 race 18:1 63:20 40:23 42:4 reenactment
purpose 35:6 67:14 62:17 33:6
purposes 55:3 47:7,9 63:10 17:10 34:16 referred 26:18
42:20 put 25:16,22 racist 29:16 42:1 10:18 33:14 61:16
putting 15:18 radical 66:5 41:8 56:8 61:5 regard 9:10
68:24 relief 20:1,9 respect 6:10 8:5 rightly 10:16 25:10 28:18
11:17 remain 61:20 49:7 50:6,24 25:14 29:15 18:14 19:7
remains 37:7 51:9 31:2 33:18 20:13 58:2
18:4 51:16 respond 6:1 38:14 48:3,5 60:3 61:7
remedial 3:20 36:3 44:6 48:16 51:2 62:14 68:6
45:25 27:15 55:1 Respondent 53:3 58:9 Scalia 10:5
57:14 1:20 2:7 24:3 65:25 67:21,24 16:14,25 17:4
66:1 remedied 4:6 29:9 68:25 21:12,19 24:9
remedies 26:15 Respondents ripe 19:23 24:12 31:5,14
4:1,8 15:11,16,17 52:24 Roberts 3:3 29:3 39:16 46:11
5:4 6:1,21 16:13 17:12,13 responding 30:10,16,20 48:12 49:12
9:1,8 17:16 20:10 18:22 68:21,23 32:3,7,15,19 50:5 53:14,16
25:4,16,19,21 responds 67:24 33:16 41:24 53:17 58:22,25
12:16 26:3 28:5 response 43:9 42:5,17,21 59:1,3,6 66:17
45:14 55:10 43:19 44:1 44:25 45:12,20 68:13
15:1,7,11 64:17 responses 44:12 48:7 52:19,22 Scalia's 68:9
16:9,10 remedying 57:1 responsible 55:21,25 56:9 screen 37:20
17:14,19 remind 26:9 50:20 56:20 57:8 second 13:25
19:3 remove 26:5,23 rest 35:22 41:2 61:23 62:2,3 23:25 49:6
20:23 removed 30:6 restraint 15:18 63:4 69:2,4 58:7,8
renew 14:8 21:1 26:6 Rome 7:2,2 13:8 secondary 14:17
23:4 60:11 65:20 rests 38:10 27:21 45:22,24 14:18 15:4
24:11,18 renewal 53:2 result 23:10 46:3 second-genera...
26:9,18 renewing 12:9 24:15 29:21,22 round 54:24 46:3
41:17 12:25 31:3 38:5 ruled 54:23 section 3:13,14
63:5,6,8 repetitive 54:20 results 26:2 rules 18:18,19 4:5,6 5:2,15,18
replete 10:20 34:22 41:1 ruling 53:11 5:20 14:12,25
13:25 retain 34:19 55:4 15:13 22:18,21
replicates 54:12 reverse 19:8,16 run 60:13,14,17 23:16 24:22,23
Report 55:8 20:12 35:4 60:17,18,23 25:9,12,17,19
69:3 representing 45:8 55:22 runs 60:12,15 25:20,21,25
required 28:13 right 17:21,25 sacrifice 20:24 34:22 36:4,5
requirement 28:10 39:16 62:23 36:14,16,21,24
requires 50:25 43:6,21,24 38:9 43:25 38:9,10,12,16
40:22 reserved 27:16 62:23 63:2,10 saying 9:16 41:8,23 42:11
residents 5:16 63:12 65:21 18:21,23 20:12 42:13,19,24
53:7,9 seven 59:12,12 somewhat 43:18 standard 4:10 65:2 67:11
Shelby 1:3 3:4 65:14 6:19 33:24 statewide 5:13
6:9,10 7:4 9:10 sorry 17:23 49:3,4 60:15 static 59:18
55:5,9 11:12 44:15 45:20 standards 34:5 statistics 13:13
45:3 52:5 sort 8:7 9:16 standing 53:7 34:3,7 37:15
57:21 shift 36:11 21:13 49:10 stands 25:14 38:13 41:6
shorten 55:2 Sotomayor 3:22 start 4:13 28:12 64:14 65:5
show 10:20 41:7 4:2,9,10 6:2,14 36:9 statute 8:16,17
59:11 47:16 58:1 7:7,15 10:13 started 18:7 9:5 10:2,3,9
63:10,11 shows 6:18 14:8 10:23 11:3 starts 10:14 12:9,14,24,25
64:24 53:22 57:22 14:11 15:1,2 State 5:11,16,19 13:2 35:6 43:8
68:8 58:10,18 60:22 15:10,12 18:5 5:21 6:12 8:18 44:18 45:23
side 4:21 18:9 20:17 12:1,7,8 17:1 47:20 50:11
59:10 30:25 32:14 27:25 33:13 20:11 22:2 59:25 60:1
66:6 34:21 40:25 63:9,13,17 23:19,19 24:5 62:12,20
similar 6:2 10:6 64:2,11,13 25:9 32:4,15 statutes 33:19
singly 11:9 source 36:19 65:6 67:13 stood 25:25
59:7 situation 13:16 South 3:19,25 23:5 26:19 stream 60:3
48:16 51:8,13 42:1 61:19 4:25 5:1,6,8 stronger 67:19
six 62:21 27:2 31:9 9:12 12:11,13 struck 14:15
slavery 59:24 sovereignty 8:7 19:9 20:24 61:20
50:6 sledgehammer 25:18 65:1 21:8,15,16 study 58:19
slightly 55:24 57:18 23:20,22 25:15 49:2 64:9,24
50:9,10 social 49:23,25 speaks 8:4 53:6 26:14,24 27:2 subjurisdictions
society 47:9 special 9:20 27:5,9,11,16 29:24 41:20,21
28:16 specific 8:1 19:9 31:9 35:7 36:17 41:25
34:14 solved 16:2,3 53:23 55:8 48:18,24 50:14 submissions
65:23,25 66:2 57:7 51:6 53:20 29:20 30:12
somebody 9:21 spells 19:25 59:11,21,21,22 37:22 39:18
20:19 34:5 Tennessee 23:22 30:22 31:17 35:14,18,20
29:16 term 46:21,23 36:12 37:1,6 timetables 25:22
27:14 sure 43:2 45:5 14:20,20 22:11 38:8,18,22 24:24
31:22 52:1 23:2 26:14 39:12 40:7,13 tiny 29:20 31:3
39:5,13 surface 12:4 43:10 61:3 40:20 41:4,12 today 10:19
62:16 surprisingly terrible 43:5 41:16,18,23 11:18 13:13
58:13 survive 12:15 28:14,14,22 44:14 47:4,6 55:23 61:8,14
sweep 7:25 56:24 67:14 49:17 50:12,15 tool 67:11
40:1 system 50:20 testing 11:16 53:18 56:12,19 total 22:17
T 67:18 60:12,22 61:3 transforming
23:15 44:23 52:15,16 24:18 29:3,10 64:2,5 65:14 27:8,18 43:17
38:16 take 13:8 36:15 48:9 52:19,20 65:14,24 66:7 treating 23:6
41:23 40:15 54:3,21 63:4,8 69:2,3 66:19 67:2,9 44:3 47:17
65:3 56:12 then-existing 67:22 68:5,13 60:9
33:5 takes 56:4 8:20 11:7 Third 32:20 66:5,8
56:11 talk 25:18 26:22 39:14 thorough 16:8 tremendous
talking 4:3 thing 11:24 12:7 thought 5:6 tried 55:2,18
61:24 68:5 60:6 31:18 63:21 21:18 23:20
37:3,12 targeting 23:15 6:12 7:14,18 25:10 46:3,5 52:14
41:9 tax 9:20,21 8:13 9:6,8 12:1 thrust 8:22 9:6 53:14,22
60:11 teaching 22:4 15:15 16:21,22 tilt 37:25 try 44:19 52:7
20:18,18 57:6 28:9,12,14,23 22:21 34:14 19:24 32:5,5,9
3:18 view 19:12 33:4 W 1:16 2:3,13 5:4 23:8,19
12:14 unrelated 56:23 violate 28:18 21:14,16 43:2 words 5:9 9:12
23:4 unusual 15:17 violated 10:10 43:25 44:9 work 17:12 21:3
28:1,8 16:12 violates 27:8 65:13 23:14 36:13
53:4 upheld 34:13 28:19 wants 8:16 38:11 44:20
57:18,20 35:14,14 45:15 violating 16:20 17:16 39:25 52:16 68:8
use 5:20 12:5 28:6 54:15 War 60:8 13:4 17:17
23:14 26:20 23:2,16 55:11 1:16,19 working 23:1
67:25 Virginia 40:17 32:24 33:23 65:22
18:10,17 29:16 65:15 worse 24:5 44:4
v 1:5 3:5 62:23 63:2,10 30:24 34:8 worst 5:2 32:4
validated 40:11 68:12,24 50:22 67:14 17:13 28:23
52:1 valve 20:1 63:14 18:19 60:4 write 5:14 8:16
various 5:5 voter 14:20 18:5 weaknesses 14:5 writing 32:24
38:15 Verrilli 1:18 2:6 voters 8:11,12 wedded 68:11 44:3 46:6
29:7,8,10 14:21,22 61:15 Wednesday written 47:8
31:13,16,20 votes 47:1 48:2 weight 62:7 37:15 54:11
32:23 34:9 voting 3:12 4:4 went 15:25
36:2,8 37:6,17 13:10 14:22 weren't 68:21 x 1:2,8
39:19 40:7,20 41:12 25:13 29:15 we're 4:3 8:2,18 Y
50:15,23 51:7 55:2 58:9 we've 19:21,21 55:15 59:23,24
51:6 version 67:16,17 65:25 66:1 53:13 55:5 York 1:21,21
55:22 versus 52:2 67:21,24,25 white 32:4,9,16 20:5 54:18
vest 55:6 68:9 32:21
200 59:23 55:19 56:12,16
1:14 3:2 2000 54:24 57:21,21,23,25
55:15 2005 3:12,18 58:1,2 63:5,10
69:6 11:21 30:13 63:14 65:3,11
1:4 3:4 60:2 66:6 68:8,11,15
41:20,21 2006 15:25 5's 3:13
39:3 61:7 16:18,20 30:2 5-year 46:21,23
32:12,25 33:8 50 22:7
33:23 34:10,11 52 2:10
16:18 40:9,14 45:10 56 22:18
34:7 46:6 51:17 57 55:9
54:4 56:6
61:11 6
11:5 18:3
63:20 2013 1:10 60-day 36:22
240 4:4 65:3 63 2:14
11:15 12:2 25 22:16 46:25 65 14:8
13:8 25-year 3:12
1:10 7
34:6,10 7 46:24
35:13 29 2:7
16:18
51:11
59:23 8
68:21 3 2:4 24:23
8 27:13 46:25
26:8 80 59:24
14:10 3700 30:16,21
41:22 58:21
56:8 4
15:24 4 3:11 9
54:4,4 4(b)'s 3:14 9 61:7
41 59:25 98 16:19,25
46 34:7
4:6 5:15,18 48 19:7
22:18,21 49 19:7
24:22 5
5 4:5 5:2,20
26:1 14:12,25 15:13
34:22 25:9 29:5,18
29:20,21,23
37:3,14 30:2,24 31:1
36:11,11,14,16
40:1,11 36:21 37:4,25
38:10,12,22
53:7 39:2 40:2 41:7
42:11,19 46:9
55:5,9 46:22 48:7
58:10,12 50:8 51:20
59:12 53:10,19,24
65:3 54:7,12 55:19
