IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
ALABAMA, ET AL., :
Plaintiffs : No. 132, Orig.
v. :
NORTH CAROLINA :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -x
Washington, D.C.
Monday, January 11, 2010
The above-entitled matter came on for
oral argument before the Supreme Court of the United
States at 10:06 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Plaintiffs.
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER ESQ., Deputy Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting neither party.
WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of Defendant.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Plaintiffs 3
EDWIN S. KNEEDLER, ESQ.
On behalf of Neither Party 34
WALTER DELLINGER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Defendant 44
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CARTER G. PHILLIPS, ESQ.
On behalf of the Plaintiffs 77
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:06 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument first this morning in Case 132 on our
original docket, Alabama v. North Carolina.
Mr. Phillips.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFFS
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice, and may it please the Court:
North Carolina breached the Southeast
Compact in this case. Whether you examine it from
the perspective of the sanctions that were imposed by
the Commission, or whether you evaluate it from the
perspective of the repeated statements by the
executives of the Commission that there had been a
material breach and a repudiation, or whether you
examine it from the perspective of the undisputed
record that was collected by the Special Master, the
conclusion, it seems to me, is inescapable that what
North Carolina did here by taking no action between
December 1997 and July of 1996 simply does not
fulfill the responsibilities that they had -- that
North Carolina had assumed, and therefore the only
issue should be: What is the appropriate remedy for
this extraordinary breach?
To go to the specific record, just to be
clear about this, the Special Master says at page 10
of his report: "The parties do not dispute that
North Carolina did not take additional steps to
pursue a license for a waste facility during that
period." Our undisputed statement of facts is that
North Carolina took no further steps to license
between 1997 and 1999.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Phillips, the point
that North Carolina makes is it would be throwing
away the taxpayers' money to no purpose. That is,
what is the point of continuing to pursue a license
when North Carolina does not have the funding to
continue the process and to open the disposal
facility?
So North Carolina's point of view is: What
does it mean to continue to seek the license when
they are not going to have the money to get to the
end of the line?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Well, North Carolina
assumed the responsibility more than a decade prior
to that time to take all appropriate steps in order
to provide for licensing and for construction of a
facility. "Appropriate steps" in that context has to
mean something more than simply doing nothing,
declaring categorically that you are going to
repudiate the agreement, and attempting to extort
from the compact and its Commission additional monies
that it is absolutely clear that the Commission has
no responsibility to North Carolina to pay.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But how much -- how much
did the Commission give before this? It just did
that out of the goodness of its heart?
MR. PHILLIPS: No, it did it with -- with
the approval of the other States in the compact, for
the purpose of promoting the ultimate objective of
the -- of the contract --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And -- and I think that
one of the best indications of what -- what a
contract means is the manner in which the parties act
under the contract, and that suggests to me that it
was never contemplated that North Carolina alone
would foot the bill for -- for obtaining this
license.
MR. PHILLIPS: The language of the -- of
the compact itself, Justice Scalia, is quite plain.
It's clear that the Commission has no responsibility
to create -- to pay for the creation of this -- of
this facility. That was clear from day one.
North Carolina, not only in its legislation
authorizing its authority, but also its governor
repeatedly saying, we understand that we have a
responsibility to create this facility, that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At what cost?
MR. PHILLIPS: At whatever cost --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What the Special Master
said was, I believe, that there was never an
obligation to do it at all costs. They didn't have
to bankrupt their treasury to do this; is that
correct?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do you accept that as a
working proposition?
MR. PHILLIPS: I would say that the -- that
the State of North Carolina would have -- have a
defense of impossibility if they could argue that
going down this path would have bankrupted North
Carolina.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, I think there was
certainly a significant amount of evidence that the
cost of completing this project was way above any
reasonable expectation of the parties at the time of
contracting, correct?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, but the -- but the
payment of $80 million by the Commission was way
above what any of the parties expected at the
beginning of the process as well.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What -- what do you
believe the evidence shows with respect to the
reasonable cost of completing this project?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think it was reasonable to
assume that the construction of the facility itself
would have cost an additional $75 million.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And about a -- an
additional 34,000 to get the license?
MR. PHILLIPS: Probably 34 million to
complete the license.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So -- I'm sorry. I
misspoke. So over $100 million?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but the -- the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: An amount equal to what
they had already -- everybody had already put in?
MR. PHILLIPS: To be sure, but the -- but
the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And about how many
times greater than the initial estimates?
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't know that there were
any initial estimates, at least that I recall.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I thought it was about
20 or 30 million dollars was initially estimated to
- to do this project.
MR. PHILLIPS: I doubt that that would have
included the full construction.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I -- I'm only going
through these to try to get a sense from you of at
what point did North Carolina have a right to claim
impossibility? You are saying that --
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. I mean, I think North
Carolina -- first of all, North Carolina never did
assert a right of impossibility.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, it did by saying,
we can't complete this project.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, it said it wouldn't
complete this project. It imposed upon us and
unilaterally imposed upon the other States to the
compact the obligation to fund, an obligation none of
them had -- had assumed under the contract.
To be sure, they had provided moneys to
North Carolina with the expectation that North
Carolina would use those moneys ultimately to build a
project. But the reality is in 1997, in December,
North Carolina unilaterally declared that they were
not going to complete the project and that they were
going to take no actions further -- in furtherance --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So your argument is then
that they acted 2 years too late. When they gave
notice that they were not able to go forward, but
they were going to keep this thing going, so if the
funds should somehow become available, they would
have the -- they would have things still in place.
They wouldn't have terminated the effort.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Yes, Justice
Ginsburg. Our argument is that -- you know, whether
-- you know --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So if they had done
everything the same --
MR. PHILLIPS: I think there's an open
question of whether the withdrawal in '97 would have
been in good faith or not. That would be a separate
issue. But there is no question that the one thing
that a contracting party does not have the right to
do is to unilaterally decide to repudiate the
agreement, get the benefit of the agreement --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they told you what
- it was totally up-front. They said: Look, we
can't go forward with this. We haven't got the
money. We'll let everything sit, to see if someone
will come up with the money.
That's -- it's -- you paint a picture of
repudiating the contract, when North Carolina gave
notice in '97 that it would have to fold if it didn't
get the money.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, and -- and the
question then, obviously, that -- the legal issue
that that presents is whether or not a party to a
contract who is not entitled to expect the other
participants to the agreement to pay any more money
or in fact any money whatsoever has the authority
essentially to attempt to extort that money while
continuing to gain the benefits of the contract for
an additional year and a half; at that point, then
they -- then they withdraw.
We can debate about whether the withdrawal
was in good faith or not. But the bottom line is
there is no substantial difference between the
repudiation and the complete disregard of the
contractual obligations.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What were the benefits
that North Carolina was getting by paying whatever it
was -- 400-odd thousand dollars -- to keep it going
for another 2 years?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the benefits of being
a part of the compact is all of the powers that the
Commission had to deal with other compacts in terms
of how to license -- not how to license, but how to
dispose of waste. They got all of the benefits of
being a part of a compact during the entirety of that
period. So, you know, it was not in their interest
to repudiate this agreement or to withdraw from it
until they got to the point where they were -- where
they recognized that they were about to be sanctioned
for their failure to comply with their
responsibilities.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Were there any benefits to
the contract at all until -- unless and until there
was a waste facility constructed?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, there were huge
benefits, Justice Scalia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: What?
MR. PHILLIPS: The Barnwell facility in
South Carolina was disposing of waste and was only
going to take wastes from the compact States in the
Southeast Compact. So North Carolina had -- had
ample access to that South Carolina facility that, if
it had never joined the compact, it never would have
had available to it.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: At what point did South
Carolina withdraw?
MR. PHILLIPS: In 1995, Justice Ginsburg.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And so they -- by 1997,
they didn't have any access to Barnwell anymore.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, but they still had
the benefit of the compact's -- the Commission's
authority to negotiate on behalf of the member States
deals with other compacts for the disposal in those
facilities which you otherwise don't have the benefit
of.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It sounds to me pretty
hypothetical. And I find it difficult to believe
that there is an obligation to commit money and a
liability for failure to do so in a compact which
says that the State can withdraw at any time. You
talk about good faith withdrawal. What would be bad
faith withdrawal? North Carolina simply says: It's
no longer worth our trouble.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, this would be bad
faith withdrawal.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why?
MR. PHILLIPS: Where the State assumes --
accepts $80 million, goes down a path, is not
entitled to any of that money or to any other money,
and then unilaterally withdraws --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Did it misspend that
money? Are you saying the money was misspent?
MR. PHILLIPS: That's an open issue at this
point. We haven't analyzed that. That's part of
what I think what would be involved with the last
three counts of the -- of the complaint. We don't
know exactly whether that money was properly spent or
not.
But -- but either way, I think it is
important to recognize that, even if it were not,
quote "misspent", at the end of the day which entity
has the benefit of the $80 million? Is it the six
members of the compact today? No. It's North
Carolina.
If the -- if the Federal Government were to
declare tomorrow, in response to some terrorist
problem, that on-site storage of low-level nuclear
waste is no longer permissible and that those wastes
have got to be disposed of somewhere other -- in some
other kind of a facility, the State that is -- other
than Texas, which is about to start one up, but the
State that's clearly in the best position to do that
today is North Carolina. Why? Because they have got
a $134 million jump on everybody, $80 million the
benefit of which was conferred by the Commission and
the compact and the sister States that were a part of
--
JUSTICE STEVENS: But, Mr. Phillips, I
really don't quite understand a part of your
argument. I'm not sure what happened to the $80
million, and I guess you aren't, either. And if in
fact -- and maybe it was -- they had in good faith
used that money to try and complete the facility and
then decided it's just not worth it, would you still
be entitled to get the 80 million back?
MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I think if -- it would
be a tougher case if they had taken the 80 million
and come to the conclusion of this and there was a
finding by the State authorities that this facility
simply cannot be built consistent with health and
safety. I think that would be an argument that we
are not entitled to the money back.
But what I think you are not entitled to
do, as North Carolina, is to decide unilaterally that
more money should be paid, which is not provided for
under the agreement, and insist on that as a
condition of fulfilling any of its responsibilities
under the agreement.
JUSTICE ALITO: What is your position --
what do you say that the States contemplated
regarding the financing of these -- of these
projects? That the State that was unfortunate enough
to be selected as the second State would have to pay
the full cost, even if it was $200 million, and then
would -- how long would it take for that State to get
that money back? Would it have to wait until, you
know, 80, 100 years later to get the benefit of some
other State having to finance a project?
MR. PHILLIPS: No. I mean, well, the
working assumption is that the facilities would be in
operation for 20 years. And the reality, Justice
Alito, is that once you have one of these facilities
built, given that there are not very many of them and
they are and would be a monopoly within the compact
region, you have virtually limited -- unlimited
authority to dictate whatever price you want to
require for taking on the disposal. And if you look
at the sites that exist -- it was true in Barnwell;
it's certainly true in Utah and in Washington -- I
mean, those are licenses to print money, essentially,
at this point. And the expectation --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But in -- but in the --
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: -- case of this compact
and the other ones, as I -- do I understand
correctly, Mr. Phillips, that none of these -- none
of these compacts that were negotiated around the
same time, none of them yielded a disposal -- an
operative disposal facility?
MR. PHILLIPS: None so far. Texas I think
is as -- is as far along in its process as -- as
anyone, and it's -- and it's part of a compact. But
you know, obviously there is a "not in my backyard"
mentality here. But the -- at the end of the day,
the fundamental question remains, you know, what --
who bears the responsibility?
North Carolina -- it wasn't as though North
Carolina was the unfortunate recipient of this
particular decision and then said, you know, we don't
want to do this, we can't pay for this, there's no
way we can accomplish this. North Carolina, after
having been designated as the host State,
affirmatively passed legislation accepting that
responsibility and committing the State to actually
providing for a facility.
Now, Justice Stevens, I agree, if it had
turned out that as a matter of public health and
safety -- that's the big bugaboo here -- if that had
been an obstacle, or maybe, Justice Sotomayor, if the
expense had been so far out of the range of what's
conceivable, maybe there's an impossibility element
to it. But the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I interrupt just
a moment?
MR. PHILLIPS: Of course.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Let's assume they
hadn't taken the 80 million. Let's assume they had
sunk all of that money themselves --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- and they looked and
said: It's going to take us another 120 million to
complete this; we just can't. What in the compact
stopped them from withdrawing? Because the only
provision I see in the contract about withdrawing is
the one that says once the facility is completed --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- you have to keep --
you have to give notice, four-year notice.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. The only thing --
there is nothing express in the contract, in the
compact, that would prevent them from doing that. I
do think there is an implied duty of good faith. But
in the situation you pose, Your Honor, I don't think
there's any question that they acted in good faith.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Right, okay. So
assuming they are acting in good faith, I still don't
quite understand what the difference is except the
fact that they took what you've described in other
counts as an unjust enrichment. You got us to give
you some money to help you along in this project.
But the situation hasn't changed. We can't spend
more money. We certainly can't spend the amount of
money it will take to complete this project. I'm not
sure what turns that into bad faith, other than your
claim that they --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, other than -- other
than the fact that to say "We can't" strikes me as
utterly implausible. To say "We don't want to"
strikes me as much more arguable.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, but the
hypothetical I gave you before you described as good
faith: Just too much money.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But the problem was
--
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What turns it into bad
faith?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think the problem --
what turns it into bad faith is taking the 80
million, consistently committing to going forward
with it, and then walking away right before you are
going to get sanctioned for failure to comply with
the -- with the agreement. I think those are the
elements that make it --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you have any precedent
from this Court for reading into a contract between
States an obligation of good faith?
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't have any -- any
decision of this Court. I do have an opinion by the
D.C. Circuit some years ago that says that every
contract carries with it an implied duty of good
faith and fair dealing. You may remember that
opinion.
JUSTICE BREYER: Then how do you -- what is
-- is that absolutely necessary? Any party State may
withdraw from the compact by enacting a law repealing
the compact. That sentence seems to me your toughest
point because that's what they did. They simply
withdrew.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, where in the contract
is it something that says -- I mean, maybe that was
foolish, to put that in there, but they did put it
in. And so how do you deal with that sentence, which
is one that Justice Scalia brought up in his --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the only -- the only
argument we have with respect to that -- and it's
important to recognize, we don't have to win this
issue in order to win the breach of contract claim in
this particular case.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well -- all right. Well,
go ahead, explain.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, because there's
massive repudiation long before the -- the question
still is, what do you do with 1997 to 1999? Before
they withdraw, they have repudiated the agreement.
They have breached it totally. The very essence of
the agreement was lost once North Carolina refused to
take any steps, much less appropriate steps.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there in this implicit
that the State of North Carolina, prior to their
withdrawal, while they are still acting, will
appropriate reasonable amounts of money for this?
MR. PHILLIPS: And take -- well, what they
are supposed to do is take appropriate steps to
license, which means --
JUSTICE BREYER: Do appropriate steps
include --
MR. PHILLIPS: -- continue to do what's
necessary to get a license.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- do they -- does this --
if we have a lend-lease agreement entered into a
treaty and absolutely ratified, I suppose that if
Congress decides not to lend and won't appropriate
the money to do it, we are in breach of the treaty.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: And I assume if there is a
similar agreement here and North Carolina's
legislature doesn't appropriate any money for
whatever internal reasons, North Carolina is in
breach of the treaty.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: Do I understand this
correctly?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, that's absolutely
right, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Is there any authority for
the proposition that when a legislature does not
appropriate the money that the executive of a State
has committed to another State, that State is in
breach, irrespective of whose fault it is within the
State?
MR. PHILLIPS: I don't know that there is
specific authority for that proposition. But,
Justice Breyer, it seems to me what you describe
there is exquisitely close to what this -- what this
Court resolved in Mobil Oil Exploration, where
Congress passed a statute saying that the
administrative side would not be permitted to go
forward, and this Court said that action constituted
a repudiation of the underlying obligation, even
though it was far from clear that there would ever be
any exploration or production of oil on this -- on
the outer continental shelf sites that were in there.
This Court said that when -- that if an
obligor will commit a breach that would of itself
give the obligee a claim for damages for total
breach, so that it so substantially impairs the value
of the contract, and the government said it would
break or did break an important contractual promise,
impairing the value of the contract, then the
government must give the companies back the money.
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. So this case then
boils down to, am I correct, in the years prior to
their withdrawal, did they take the steps,
appropriate steps, that this contract obliges them to
make?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, I think that's a fair
-
JUSTICE BREYER: And you say they did not?
MR. PHILLIPS: But we have other arguments,
obviously, but then -- but on the breach --
JUSTICE BREYER: But that's -- but if you
win on that one, you win.
MR. PHILLIPS: -- we should win. In my
judgment, that's -- the conduct of North Carolina
between 1997 and 1999 is exactly the same conduct
that the United States entered into in Mobil
Exploration.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the state of the
finding of the Commission in respect to that precise
point, and it's called -- what is it called? The
"Impact Commission"? Do we have the same thing in
mind, the Commission? Is that what it's called?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, it's a --
JUSTICE BREYER: They have -- they are the
ones who are the judge, it says.
MR. PHILLIPS: I believe that they are the
sole judge, yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: All right. That's what it
says.
MR. PHILLIPS: Article 7(C).
JUSTICE BREYER: The findings in respect to
that specific 2-year point are what, and where are
they in the record?
MR. PHILLIPS: Okay. That's in the -- that
will be in the sanctions order that's in the
appendix, so that -- in the record. I think it's
around page 400. I will get that for you, Justice
Breyer.
But the specific finding is that North
Carolina had a duty to go forward and -- and stopped
completely. It repudiated.
In addition to that, when North Carolina
announced that it was shutting down the project and
that it was not going forward, that it was just going
to run out and wait and hope, frankly, that
additional funding would come forward, the -- the
compact -- the director of the compact specifically
wrote to the governor twice, saying: These are acts
in repudiation and in violation of the agreement; it
is your responsibility.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But they also -- you
said -- you said in your brief that the -- in 1997,
the Commission came forward with some kind of
additional funding proposal, which North Carolina
came down -- turned down.
MR. PHILLIPS: Refused, right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What -- what was that?
MR. PHILLIPS: The basic proposal -- the
draft memorandum of understanding would have -- would
have led to the Commission providing, I think, about
$21 million, and the generators in the Southeast
States providing a loan to North Carolina of an
additional -- I think it was $13 million. And that
gets you the $34 million -- comes from -- for the --
for the finalized elements of getting a license put
in place. So we had -- you know, we thought we had
in place an offer to fund. I mean, that's what makes
North Carolina --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why did -- why did North
Carolina turn it down?
MR. PHILLIPS: You might want to ask Mr.
Dellinger that question. They didn't -- they didn't
provide us with any explanation for why they didn't
- why they turned that down.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But you say there was a
package, that there was a -- an offer in place where
the Commission would pay X and the generators would
kick in an additional amount as well.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And that would have
been a loan for the future.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And that was -- that --
everybody had signed -- everybody who was part of
that offer had signed onto it?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Everybody on our
side had agreed to that, including the -- the other
members of the compact.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why did they agree to it?
MR. PHILLIPS: Because the --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Once again, they are just
tender-hearted? I mean, even though North Carolina
had an obligation to fund all of it? They just come
forward and say: Yes, extort us. I mean, I --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, you know, when you --
when you've got the power to extort, you know, the
temptation to go down that path, Justice Scalia, is
obviously pretty strong. And the reason they did it
was --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suggest it's not the
power to extort; it's the power to withdraw. And
that power to withdraw suggests that there is no
absolute obligation to come up with the funding. The
two seem to me so -- so inconsistent with -- with one
another.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, the difficulty --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So long as you can
withdraw at any time --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. But remember, you
are talking now also about the Commission and the
other compact States having sunk $80 million in the
investment to get this site up and running. So we've
-- I mean, we've already got $80 million in the hole.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Would your position
be the -- be the same if it were $20 million?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, our position would be
exactly the same.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So whatever the
Commission contributed? In other words, it doesn't
have to be enough to trigger an obligation on the
part of North Carolina to move forward. I assume
there is some level where you would say, you know,
they took their chances, and it didn't work out -- as
opposed to they obviously committed in light of the
money they accepted.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think the answer to
your question is -- you know, of course, is: What's
the appropriate remedy for the particular breach in
any given case? In this context, if we were talking
about a couple thousand dollars --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: No, I don't think
so. I think it's a question of whether there's a
breach. I would say that if you gave them $1
million, you should not view that as: Well, we've
supported your efforts; you are committed to do this,
no matter how much it costs, because we have given
you $1 million.
It seems to me at some point the amount
becomes pertinent in assessing whether you have a
claim.
MR. PHILLIPS: But I -- well, I think the
ultimate question is still: What is the obligation?
And Justice Breyer identified it, I think, quite
precisely. And again, this is only with respect to
count 2 in that breach claim.
But our argument there is that they had a
responsibility from December 1997 until July of 1999
to take appropriate steps. And they massively
repudiated that obligation and repudiated the
entirety of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: My -- my problem
remains --
MR. PHILLIPS: -- of the contract.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- with that answer, is
that you earlier said that they could -- forgetting
if they didn't take any money -- under the terms of
this compact -- and Justice Scalia has been noting
this repeatedly -- have withdrawn at any time because
they didn't want to sink any more money into this
project; is that correct?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. Subject to what I
would think was a duty of good faith, they could have
done that. But they didn't do that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, let's put aside
that duty of good faith --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- because with that
duty of good faith, you're suggesting that merely
because they took a million -- that's what the Chief
Justice is asking you -- or 80 million, that that
somehow converted or changed the express terms of the
contract and bound them in some way to find funding
that they chose not to. That -- that's really the
argument I'm hearing you make.
MR. PHILLIPS: No, I think it's more subtle
than that, Justice Sotomayor. I mean, my point is
they always had an obligation to take appropriate
steps to get licensed. That was an obligation that
lasted until they withdrew. And from -- from
December 1997 on, they refused to take any steps
toward getting a license. And we don't know today
whether something could have happened in that year
and a half that might have changed the entire dynamic
of this and allowed it to in fact be completed in a
way that all of the parties would have been satisfied
with.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: May I ask you just one
question on the sovereign immunity issue?
MR. PHILLIPS: Of course.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any factual
development that needs to occur before the Special
Master to address the legal questions that have been
presented? And I see the legal questions as whether
or not, in fact, the claim belongs to the Commission
or to the States for the $80 million and the $10
million in lost revenue.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any factual
development that needs to occur, or is that a pure
legal question based on the arguments that are
contained in the briefs before us?
MR. PHILLIPS: I think it's a pure legal
argument. I think we have put forward everything
before the Special Master that we think is relevant
for the -- for a disposition of that --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: What is there in the
record that shows that the claims of the States are
identical to the claim the Commission is asserting,
which was the -- which was the instance in the
Arizona-California case?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. The bill of
complaint itself doesn't distinguish between claims
based on any particular party. They list the parties
and they list the claims, and there is no effort to
mix and match as between them. In terms --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It seems to me that it's
the obligation of the Commission to show that there
is an absolute parallel between the claims. And I
just don't see where I can infer from the record or
conclude that that is the case. And if -- and if
that is not so, then the Commission is not like the
Indian tribes in the Arizona case.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I would think at a
minimum we are very much like the private oil
companies in the Maryland v. Louisiana case, in any
event, where, you know, the claims were out there; it
was far from clear exactly how those claims were
going to play out in one way or another. And this
Court didn't sit down and say: We have to sort that
out ahead of going forward with the litigation. What
the Court said was: These all look to be pretty
close and there's no basis on which to assume that
they are doing more -- that they are asking for more,
and therefore there's no Eleventh Amendment problem.
And, of course, remember the Special Master
has held open the possibility that if for some reason
the claims of the Commission were to deviate from the
claims of -- of any of the compact States, which as
far as I can tell to this point they have -- they
have not deviated one iota, then the Special Master
would allow North Carolina to revisit -- to renew its
motion at that point.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But isn't there an
obligation before we exercise original jurisdiction
to ensure that there is at least a potential viable
claim by the States that they have a cause of action?
I mean, that then becomes a legal question. Is the
compact -- is the Commission an agent?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Do the States own these
revenues?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are suggesting that
--
MR. PHILLIPS: But that -- it seems to me,
Justice Sotomayor, what you are doing there is
collapsing the question on the merits into the
jurisdictional issue of --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But we do that all the
time, for example, with -- with sovereign immunity.
We --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We tell district courts
when there is a sovereign immunity issue, do the --
whatever discovery you need on the question, but
address it, because it's jurisdictional.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Although --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There has to be a basis
for the claim.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. Although this --
this Court has also recognized in Georgia v. United
States, for instance, that if -- if there are clearly
claims that exist, that are legitimately litigable,
notwithstanding the Eleventh Amendment, and there may
be some question about others, that the Court
nevertheless should go forward and figure out --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm not -- I'm not --
MR. PHILLIPS: -- which ones work and which
ones don't.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I don't question that
the States may have some legitimate claims. The
question is do they have legitimate claims to what
the Commission is seeking. I think that's the
question.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And I think the
answer to that is -- just as the Special Master said,
it's premature to try to judge that until we get to a
point in the litigation where it becomes clear that
there is some departure between what the States are
doing and what the Commission is doing.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, I am conscious of
your white light, but it does seem to me --
MR. PHILLIPS: I get --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: -- that the Commission is
-- is asking for the money for itself.
MR. PHILLIPS: No, the Commission is asking
for the money on behalf of the -- of the compact
States, and the compact States are asking for the
money on their own behalf. I do think it's an easier
vehicle for the Court to be able to provide a remedy
by giving money under these circumstances.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Phillips.
Mr. Kneedler.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF EDWIN S. KNEEDLER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
IN SUPPORT OF NEITHER PARTY
MR. KNEEDLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
The United States has participated in this
case both, at the Court's invitation, at the motion
for leave to file stage and then before the Special
Master, primarily on the issues that were addressed
in the Special Master's preliminary report, which go
to questions of the assertion of Eleventh Amendment
immunity in original actions as well as the structure
of the compact and the compact's power to assess
monetary sanctions itself.
Today we make two principal arguments:
one, that the Court should deny North Carolina's
motion to dismiss the Commission as a party,
rejecting at this time or for the time being the
assertion of Eleventh Amendment immunity; and second,
that the Court should deny the claim that the
Commission has the power itself to impose monetary
sanctions under article 7(F).
That's not to say that the States party may
not seek monetary relief, appropriate monetary
relief, themselves in an original action in this
Court. It's only to say that the compact Commission
is not a forum established by the compact itself,
which is not only a compact between the States, but
an Act of Congress, to do that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Can I ask you, what is
the policy advantage of the rule you are proposing
with respect to the first question, the joinder of
the Commission in this original action, of us
proceeding to answer substantive questions about the
interpretation of the compact, et cetera, without
addressing initially the right of the Commission to
bring this action as an original action at all?
It seems to be putting the cart before the
horse, or -- because I'm not sure why we should be
reaching the merits, deciding the merits, before
identifying which are the parties and what claims
they have before us.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- I, think, as Mr.
Phillips suggested, this Court's decision in -- in
the United States v. Georgia establishes the Court is
not required to, and in some circumstances it -- it
may be possible to dispose of the case on -- on the
merits because the plaintiff States in this case I
think undoubtedly have a cause --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But this one won't.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, the plaintiff States
undoubtedly have a cause of action for breach of the
compact. They are parties to the compact, and as
parties to the compact, they can bring an action
whether or not the Commission is properly before --
before the Court. And the question of whether the --
North Carolina violated the compact therefore can be
adjudicated solely on the basis of -- of the
plaintiff States' claim, without having to reach the
question of -- of whether the Commission could
properly be made a party.
If this Court were to agree with the
Special Master that there was no violation of the
compact, then the question of whether the Commission
could be -- could also bring that claim and what --
what remedy there might be for that, either to the
States or to the Commission, would never have to be
- to be reached. So there is, I think, some
efficiency with -- with respect to that.
But on the Eleventh Amendment question --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Do we have -- Mr.
Kneedler --
MR. KNEEDLER: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Kneedler, do we have
any decision that deals with the standing of a
commission to sue a State in its own right? Or this
is a novel question?
MR. KNEEDLER: This is -- this is a novel
question as -- as far as I -- as far as I am aware.
And -- and that may be one reason why the Court would
prefer not to specifically address the question. But
I -- but I do think on the -- on the basic principles
of Eleventh Amendment immunity, that this Court's
decision in Arizona v. California, at least at this
stage of the case, is dispositive. Because there the
Court concluded that the States -- because the United
States had intervened, they had no assertion of
Eleventh Amendment immunity with respect to the
subject matter of the dispute. As the Court put it,
the tribes are not bringing any new claims or issues
before the Court, and therefore the judicial power of
this Court would not be enlarged and the State's
sovereign immunity would not be compromised by the
Indian tribes' participation in the case.
We think that's an important principle, at
least with respect to Indian tribes, who this Court
recognized in Arizona --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But here the Commission
is seeking sums for itself. What assurance do we
have that the Commission, if it received the money,
would give it back to the States exactly in the ratio
the States demand it?
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, I -- I don't think the
Court --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I think it's their
obligation to show the complete parallel between --
between the claims, and that that has not been done.
MR. KNEEDLER: Well, two things about that.
In Maryland v. Louisiana, which was a suit brought by
a number of States to challenge a -- a Louisiana tax
on Commerce Clause grounds, that case went forward on
the suit of the -- of those States, but the natural
gas companies who paid the tax were permitted to
intervene, and the Court did that, notwithstanding
the Eleventh Amendment. Surely, the claim of the
States parens patriae was not identical to the claims
of the individual natural gas companies to get a
refund on their own behalf, but the Court nonetheless
allowed them to intervene, and the Court's judgment
in this case awarded -- required the State of
Louisiana to make refunds to -- to all taxpayers.
So I -- I don't think -- especially in an
original action where the State has a certain parens
patriae responsibility, I don't think that the claims
have to be identical in the precise way that they
were in -- in Arizona v. California.
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Kneedler, can I ask
you sort of a basic question about the Eleventh
Amendment argument? You -- you framed it entirely in
terms of the Eleventh Amendment, but is there not
also a common law immunity that the States can plead
against non-sovereigns?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, although I -- I think
- I think -- I don't know whether this falls within
the precise terms of the Eleventh Amendment. It
would depend on whether the compact Commission is
regarded as a citizen of another State, which I think
it would not be. But, yes, it would be the -- the
principle recognized in Alden. But I -- the
principles that I am describing here I think would
apply equally to that immunity, as they would to the
other --
JUSTICE BREYER: Why is it -- to go back to
the word "sanctions," when I read the word
"sanctions" in the law, the thing that comes to my
mind first and foremost is the money, like a fine;
and sort of second, imprisonment. But paying a fine,
that -- that seems to me the most primitive and basic
sanction of anything. And -- and why -- and
particularly, if you say the fine was limited to
giving back money you previously took.
So, why wouldn't you read this clause here
which says "including" -- and then it doesn't mention
money, but it includes some other things, and you say
well, sure, they include the other things because the
word "sanction" doesn't automatically call to mind
those other things, but it does automatically call to
mind a fine.
MR. KNEEDLER: There -- there are several
points that I think are important to bear in mind
with this. I think this Court has always recognized
that monetary liability on the part of a State is
distinct from prospective relief, and I think the
Court should not lightly assume that States have
agreed to have a nonjudicial forum, like a --
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, are we supposed to --
are we supposed to treat compacts among States as if
we are dealing with those who want to impose
obligations on the States?
MR. KNEEDLER: No, but --
JUSTICE BREYER: Here, aren't we trying to
say what obligations did the States themselves want
to impose on themselves?
MR. KNEEDLER: Yes, and as we point out in
pages 26 and 27 of our -- of our brief, there were
three -- it's actually four compacts that were
adopted or approved in the very same Act of Congress
which specifically provide for monetary sanctions --
or monetary -- monetary remedies, which shows that
the compacting parties knew how to do it when they
wanted to.
But beyond that, I think it's important to
look at the overall structure of article 7, where the
sanctions power appears. First of all, article 7(F),
which is on page 19a of the blue brief, refers to any
party State which fails to comply, et cetera, "may be
subject to sanctions, including suspension of rights
under the compact and revocation."
Those are all forward-looking sanctions.
But -- but I think what really reinforces that is if
you look at the title of article 7, which is on page
17a, it says -- it deals with eligible parties,
withdrawal, revocation, entry into force, and
termination. Article 7 is all about membership in
the -- in the Commission. The Commission's powers,
by contrast, are set out in article 4 of the -- of
the compact. There are enumerated powers there and,
for example, article 4(E)(11), on page 11a -- the
only enumerated power with respect to sanctions
there, at the bottom of 11a, is to revoke the
membership of a party State in accordance with
article 7(F).
One would think, if there -- if there was
an extraordinary power to grant monetary sanctions,
that it would have appeared in the enumerated powers,
and in fact, in the one compact adopted at the same
time that provides for imposition of fines, it
actually appears in the enumerated powers portion of
the relevant compact, not in the membership.
And, Justice Breyer, you asked about
section -- article 7(C), with respect to the power of
the Commission to be the judge of -- of certain
matters. I think it's pretty clear that what that's
driving at is the Commission being the judge of the
qualifications of the -- of the States and the
members of the Commission appointed by the States to
participate.
It's like the power of any legislative
body, the power of Congress to determine the
qualifications of someone who's about -- who has been
voted in, should that person be seated. I think
article 7(C) is directed at that, not at some power
of --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, it adds -- it adds
- it starts "Qualifications." It says it's the judge
of qualification and it's the judge of their
compliance with the conditions and requirements of
this compact.
MR. KNEEDLER: But if you continue -- "And
the laws" --
JUSTICE BREYER: "And the laws of the
States relating to the enactment of the compact."
MR. KNEEDLER: Right, but -- but -- the --
the laws of the parties -- if I may finish?
"The laws of the parties State," the final
phrase relating to the enactment of the compact, I
think would modify the qualifications -- compliance
with the conditions and requirements of the compact
with respect to membership.
Again, I think that comes from the first
part of article 7(C), but I think it's -- it's the
overall thrust of article 7 that it deals with
membership.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Kneedler.
Mr. Dellinger.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF WALTER DELLINGER
ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANT
MR. DELLINGER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may
it please the Court:
I think I should begin with a simple
question that my grandson asked me, which is why did
North Carolina quit? Which I think sheds light on
what its obligations were and what the understanding
was.
This is a compact. It is not based upon a
coercive model. You could have one, where States --
all the States are required to remain in the compact,
withdrawal is a nullity, the Commission can enforce
financial sanctions, and the compact members waive
sovereign immunity and can be sued in Federal court.
This compact is based on a consensual
model, where it -- each -- each State can withdraw,
and therefore the compact has to be in the rough
financial interest of each of the States at any point
in time, which is what --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You took -- you
took $80 million, and they got nothing for it. That
would be a question your grandson might ask.
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What did you do
with the $80 million?
MR. DELLINGER: The $80 million came from
- not the State -- the statement that the States gave
North Carolina $80 million and North Carolina has
kept it and didn't give it back is a shorthand that
is misleading in every single respect.
The funds, of course, didn't come from the
States. They contributed $25,000 apiece. It came
from charges on generators from all over the country.
The funds went to the authority established under
North Carolina law and could only be used for the
purposes of the Low-Level Waste Authority, and indeed
they all were used for the purposes of the Low-Level
Waste Authority.
The master assumes that -- that all --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How did that help the
other compacting States, giving them the $80 million
and North Carolina walking away?
MR. DELLINGER: Well, Justice Sotomayor, no
one was helped by this process or the process of the
other compacts, none of which resulted in a -- in a
facility. But what North Carolina did was to carry
out its responsibilities to take appropriate steps
and, as I will show in a moment, fully in accord with
the understanding of the Commission and North
Carolina, that they would be -- it would be jointly
financed, even though the Commission had no legal
obligation. But the key reason --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm hard-pressed to
understand where that comes from. Under the terms of
the contract -- the compact, the compact expressly
says that none of the contracting States have any
liabilities with respect to this --
MR. DELLINGER: That is correct, and it
says that the Commission does not have any legal
obligation --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Exactly.
MR. DELLINGER: -- under the compact to
fund it, either. But it was because this is a
consensual compact and because of the right to
withdrawal, as the master noted, it would have been
surprising if a facility were constructed without
significant assistance from the States that were not
the host State because of the right to withdraw, and
that indeed was recognized from the very beginning.
For example, in 1996, when the -- the
chairman of the Commission was hoping to speed up the
completion, the chairman noted that the opening of a
new regional facility in North Carolina would ensure
a source of revenues for site development in the
third host State.
Indeed, it's not surprising that, from the
beginning of the compact, the Commission provided a
substantial amount of the funding because North
Carolina could have withdrawn at any point. And the
Commission repeatedly recognized that it was, quote,
"necessary and appropriate and reasonable and
equitable" for the Commission to contribute to this.
Mr. Phillips cites the North Carolina
legislation -- the North Carolina legislation, which
notes that, among the Commission's -- the authority's
corporate powers, when it sets up the authority or
the financing -- but the North Carolina legislation,
as the Commission expressly recognized and cited in
providing the money, provides that North Carolina may
accept funds from its general assembly. The North
Carolina authority may accept funds from the North
Carolina general assembly, from the Commission
compact, from other States, from the Federal
Government, or from generators. And they begin to
say it's necessary and appropriate.
At every step, they -- the Commission says
that in -- in February of '88, October of '89,
September of '92, November of '92, "reasonable and
equitable to provide this funding," and of course it
makes sense, given the consensual nature of the
compact.
So, what happened? Why did North Carolina
quit? What happened was, because of the right to
withdraw, South Carolina withdrew in 1995. When
South Carolina withdrew, this of course deprived the
Commission of a ready source of funding from the fees
that were being paid to the facility in Barnwell,
South Carolina.
But much -- or of equal significance is the
fact that South Carolina, having withdrawn, no longer
had to comply with the compact requirement, that
South Carolina ceased operating a facility on
December 31, 1992.
Why was that important? Because the
compact creates, as Mr. Phillips noted, something
like a monopoly within the region, and when you are
financing the facility you know, if you are the
financing authority, that you will have a captive
market --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay. I see. So --
MR. DELLINGER: Unless -- unless States can
withdraw.
JUSTICE BREYER: So I was thinking of this,
is: What we have are a group of States, each of whom
feels it's necessary to build a cholera plant. And
they know that the cholera plant will be hated by
everybody in their State, but it's necessary. So
they each say: We'll undertake it, okay? But the
deal is you do, too. Now, that's their basic deal.
I don't know that they ever would have
entered into this as part of the basic deal that
State A depends for 4 years on State B doing it, but
when it's State A's turn, they run away. Well,
that's the deal. They can run away. But in
addition, take $80 million? Okay. That's where we
are back with the Chief's question.
Now, I don't know whether it is an
appropriate step or not an appropriate step to keep
the 80 million as well as running away. But it seems
to me that we have an arbitrator that was supposed to
decide whether it was or whether it wasn't, and they
said it was an appropriate step. They foresaw you
would take the 80 million, never give it back, at
least.
But the Commission thinks it isn't. And
the arbitrator paid no attention whatsoever to the
Commission. And what the Commission says in the
language that I quoted is that the Commission is the
judge of the members' compliance with the
requirements of this contract. So when I read that,
I think: Surely, he should have paid some attention
to the fact that the Commission thought that what was
keeping the 80 million was not an appropriate step.
Now, there we are. That's my question.
And the only answer I've heard so far is, if I read
the rest of the sentence, it talks about laws of
States relating to the enactment of this contract --
compact. And I don't know that you read "enactment"
so narrowly to refer to laws that talked about how
you adopt it. There might be a whole lot of laws. I
guess you pay attention to all of them. So I don't
see what the last phrase has to do with it. But
anyway, that's my basic question in the case.
MR. DELLINGER: All right. I'll -- I'll
answer them in reverse order: The keeping the 80
million and the Commission's judgment about that.
Their argument is either that, you know, the
Commission is somehow the sole judge of these issues
or that there's some -- that you should treat a State
as something like a regulated industry under an
agency model. And they -- and they point to 7(C), or
at least the part of 7(C) that they leave in their
quote, as establishing that. And what I think Mr.
Kneedler was attempting to say when his time ran out
is that, if you just read 7(C), it's about
membership.
7(C) is in a five-provision sequence: (A),
(B), (C), (D), and (E). (A) lists the initial State
members; (B) says how other States can become
members; (D) provides that the first three States
which enact and pay their fees will bring the compact
into existence. And (E) states that members of other
compacts are not eligible for membership.
Then (C), in the middle, says that each
State shall be declared a party State upon payment of
the fees and enactment, and the Commission is the
judge of the qualifications of the party States and
of its members and their compliance with the
conditions and requirements of the compact -- and if
I may go "dot, dot, dot" -- relating to the enactment
of this compact.
Now, that phrase "relating to the
enactment" might refer just to the preceding phrase
about laws of the party States. But Mr. Kneedler and
I both read it more naturally in the context of the
Commission as judge, that this is about how you judge
who's a member. It is, in that sense, like the House
of Representatives provision they quote, except it
doesn't say "sole judge."
JUSTICE BREYER: So, in your opinion, the
Commission is not the judge of anything other than
membership?
MR. DELLINGER: Not with --
JUSTICE BREYER: So, therefore, the six
pages or so of this compact that has to do with a lot
of detailed issues that might appear before the
Commission -- it is not the judge of whether there is
compliance with those issues --
MR. DELLINGER: With respect to -- with
respect to --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- because this concerns
only membership?
MR. DELLINGER: With respect to parties to
the compact, the Commission, of course, has to
interpret the compact when it engages in its sanction
authority. If it's going to sanction a State that is
blocking the transmit of other States, it has to
interpret what it is applying.
I think what the -- counsel is arguing that
it was entitled to some special deference, and what
the master is saying is: Given the right to
withdraw, why should North Carolina -- why should it
be allowed any deference over a determination by the
State that's not a party to the compact? It was not
required to -- not a party to -- at that point, to
the compact.
Now, I do want to answer your question
about North Carolina keeping the money, because this
is important. Where --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Before you get to that --
MR. DELLINGER: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: While we are on 7(C), I'm
not clear on how you are reading that last section.
Is the last phrase -- "relating to the enactment of
this compact" -- is it your position that that phrase
is joined not only with the immediately preceding
words -- "the laws of the party States" relating to
the enactment of this compact -- but that it also
refers back to compliance with the conditions and
requirements of this compact relating to the
enactment of this compact?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes, I am. And that's not
grammatically compelled; it is permitted.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It certainly isn't
grammatically compelled, but does it make any sense?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes, it does.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Conditions and
requirements relating to the enactment of the
compact?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes. This is about -- it's
not very beautifully done, but it's about the
Commission judging who becomes a member. In (A),
(B), (C), (D), and (E), and as Mr. Kneedler noted, in
the other compacts that were based on a model, this
- the seventh article is all about eligibility for
membership. The powers and sanctions and parts are
elsewhere in the compact.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Are you relying on the
caption to article 7 -- "Eligible Parties;
Withdrawal; Revocation; Entry into Force;
Termination"? The caption to article 7?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes. And it's -- it's also
captions about that subject.
But if I may return to the question of
who's got the money: The $80 million coming from
fees generated by users around the country went
through the Commission to the authority. It was set
up in a special separate account just for the
purposes of the authority. All of the funds were
expended over this process of a massive amount of
studies that were done. Not a penny of it could ever
be spent by the North Carolina General Assembly for
any purposes whatsoever.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dellinger, what of
- what of Mr. Phillips's argument that that $80
million gave North Carolina a leg up, should there
ever be any revival of the development of a disposal
facility; North Carolina is much better situated than
anyone else to do this, because they have already
sunk $80,000 into pursuing a license?
MR. DELLINGER: Well, it has been 10 or 12
years since this occurred, Justice Ginsburg, and
there has been no effort and no plan in North
Carolina to build a facility, and to begin the
licensing process anew. Some of the information they
-- the authority retained, which would be of use to
the Commission anywhere, whether there is any site
specific information that would still be good 15 or
20 years out, I think is just pure speculation.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Take a hypothetical case
where North Carolina did have a real advantage and
they used the money to create a facility, would that
bear on the unjust enrichment claim or even the
sanctions claim?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes. It might well bear on
the unjust enrichment, if there was, you know, an
enrichment. What happened here is that the North
Carolina General Assembly appropriated money that
went to the authority. Properly considered, North
Carolina -- the Commission provided money to the
authority. The North Carolina General Assembly
provided money for the authority. All the funds were
spent. The only State that contributed money to this
process was North Carolina, and North Carolina
contributed $34 million.
Now, why did they -- I think one of the
most useful documents we have is in the --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I just want -- you said
the only State that contributed money to the
Commission was North Carolina? I just want to make
sure I heard that right.
MR. DELLINGER: Every State contributed
$25,000 --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's it?
MR. DELLINGER: -- to sign up.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Right.
MR. DELLINGER: But aside from that, North
Carolina General Assembly appropriated $34 million to
the North Carolina authority, the -- the waste
disposal authority. They were the only State to do
so.
So 80 million had come from the fees
generated at Barnwell, 34 million from North
Carolina, and the -- what happened was -- once South
Carolina withdrew from the compact, was liberated
from this obligation to close, was announcing that it
was now going to continue and is open to the world,
they had a cost advantage and a location advantage
over North Carolina.
So in -- in 1996, the joint supplemental
fact brief at -- appendix at page 143, is where the
head of the North Carolina authority writes to the
head of the Commission and notes that, with the
withdrawal of South Carolina and their decision to
continue the operation at Barnwell, the financing
options have been substantially changed.
Under the current compact, any State can
withdraw up until the North Carolina facility becomes
operational. With an available alternative disposal
facility now in South Carolina, there is no assurance
to potential bondholders or financiers that there
will be a revenue stream from which to repay any
indebtedness. Therefore, the authority is in a
position where the intended vehicles for financing
are no longer possible.
One possibility is to modify the compact to
preclude withdrawal from the compact, once the
license is issued for the North Carolina facility,
and that would -- such an amendment would allow --
future use of the facility would be assured, and
revenue financing could be considered.
It was not practical to submit that to all
seven of the other -- all seven legislatures and to
Congress, but the other problem is it would not have
-- its -- its passage would, by no means, have been
assured. The States, at that moment, could either
stay in or go.
So North Carolina is faced, after South
Carolina's withdrawal, with the prospect of advancing
-- trying to advance bonds for another, at minimum,
$75 million for construction costs, which would bring
the whole project up to 223 million, close to a
quarter of a billion dollars, and with now a South
Carolina facility that is closer to every State in
the compact, except Virginia, and where, because it
was built in 1981, it has a competitive cost
advantage.
So why is Georgia going to stay in the
compact, when it has what may be a -- a less costly
and less distant alternative in going to Barnwell,
South Carolina?
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, why -- why would
anyone stay in the contract? I take it that your
point, which is an awfully good one, is that this
compact was designed, like others, to solve a
political problem.
It's necessary for the country to store
low-level radioactive waste, necessary for health and
safety, but because of the politics and people's
understanding, incomplete, no one wants it, and so,
now, the States have formed a series of compacts.
And we are told, in an amicus brief, that,
if this compact is interpreted to allow one State to
take advantage of another State's having done so for
years and then run away and keep $80 million to boot,
it will be impossible for many other States to resist
that same route.
And that will be the end of compacts
through the United States, and what we will have is
low-level waste without storage. That's argument,
roughly, that's made in an amicus brief in this case,
and I would like to know your opinion.
MR. DELLINGER: My response to that is that
the amicus' suggestion that a decision for North
Carolina would impair the very useful mechanism of
interstate compacts has it exactly backwards.
States establishing compacts remain
entirely free to include or add provisions limiting
the right to withdraw; permitting the imposition of
sanctions, including financial sanctions; imposing
those on States that are no longer members; defining
whether the limits will be a million dollars or a
hundred million for what they will impose -- or no
limits at all; and, as the Central Compact did,
requiring a waiver of sovereign immunity so that
these judgments can be enforced in Federal court.
All that's possible.
But a decision in -- whether or not you
decide for North Carolina, if that's what you want in
a compact, you can have that compact, and nothing in
a decision for North Carolina would change that.
A decision in favor of North Carolina
would, in fact, benefit the compacting process
because it would provide assurances to State
legislators that you can pick up a copy of the
proposed compact and read it and know that that is
the extent of the liabilities to which you are
imposing your -- exposing your State, and that is the
limit of the obligations you are taking on to --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: In this case -- in this
case, how did it come about that the right to
withdraw any time until the second plant was
operable, was that -- that was North Carolina's
proposal after it was designated to be the site?
MR. DELLINGER: Justice Ginsburg, the
original compact had no limits whatsoever on
withdrawal, and when North Carolina was chosen as the
site, it proposed, as a necessary condition to its
not -- not withdrawing, that the compact be admitted
to add a provision, 7(H), which would say that after
-- 30 days after the second facility becomes
operational, no State may withdraw without the
consent of all the other States.
So North -- North Carolina added a
limitation on the -- at their behest, a limitation on
the right to withdraw. When South Carolina pulled
out, it was clear that that limitation on the right
to withdrawal wasn't good enough because it meant
that States could withdraw at any time up until the
new facility became operational, in which case it was
going to be too late.
If they pulled out then and went to -- to
Barnwell, that made it unbondable because there's no
guarantee -- what made it possible to contemplate
financing this by bonds and by other financing
mechanisms was the insurance of a market and the
right to withdraw --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why didn't you
withdraw? I mean, all this is very good. You had
that absolute right to withdraw, but you didn't
withdraw in -- when was it -- '97. You went on for 2
years, still as a member of the compact and still
subject to obligations under the compact. How could
it be said that you were taking all appropriate
steps? What is the language -- all --
MR. DELLINGER: Yes. Appropriate steps --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes.
MR. DELLINGER: -- to ensure that a license
is held and obtained.
JUSTICE SCALIA: You took no steps at all.
You took zero steps.
MR. DELLINGER: North --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why didn't you withdraw?
MR. DELLINGER: Because North Carolina
hoped that -- and no longer spending 2 million a
year, it spent half a million to get -- to keep the
authority going, North Carolina kept open the
possibility that there would be some possible
financing that might allow this project to be
completed.
They did not, as Mr. Phillips suggested, I
think in error -- they did not have access by staying
in the compact to the facility at Barnwell, South
Carolina. South Carolina was -- would close that to
North Carolina, so -- so --
JUSTICE SCALIA: They had no benefit from
the compact for those 2 years?
MR. DELLINGER: But the steps North
Carolina took for those last 19 months were exactly
the steps that were appropriate. Because they did
not have an obligation to fund this at whatever cost
and because they were willing -- North Carolina's
willingness to continue the same ratio of funding
that had been a part of the process for the preceding
8 years was not going to provide the sums necessary
to complete it, it would have been a waste and a
squandering of the money of North Carolina's
taxpayers and the Commission to take any steps that
required the expenditure --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, you are not arguing
impossibility, though. I mean, the other side --
MR. DELLINGER: No, Justice Scalia. I'm
not arguing that it's impossible. What -- what I'm
arguing is that, if North Carolina had continued the
level of funding, about $3 million a year, on -- on
average, North Carolina had been contributing; the
Commission, an average of $7 million had been -- if
North Carolina had contributed that and some -- it
would not have come close -- after the withdrawal of
South Carolina, it would not have come close to
providing the funds needed to complete the facility.
Therefore, any funds expended would have
been wasteful and inappropriate.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Dellinger, your
brief makes -- I think the reply brief made some
reference to North Carolina's attempting to get
funding from another source after Barnwell -- the
revenues from Barnwell were no longer available to
it.
I think, in -- in your reply brief, you
make some reference to an effort on North Carolina's
part to get -- what -- what was that effort?
MR. DELLINGER: Well, the document I cited,
December 13, '96, begins to set out some of the
proposals. One proposal, for example, was to ask
generators -- major generators to take an equity
position in the authority, that the North Carolina
General Assembly would continue its funding at the
same rate it had. Till the last day, North Carolina
was willing to spend at that rate.
JUSTICE BREYER: But what -- what -- you
just said -- I may not have misunderstood, but I
thought you said, in response to Justice Scalia,
that, during 1997 and '98, when he said why didn't
you take appropriate steps, that you said you didn't
do anything, and that was the appropriate step; is
that right? If you -- if you said that --
MR. DELLINGER: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: If I heard you correctly.
All right. But then it shows in the -- in the
Special Master's report that, during that time, you
received from the Commission funds over $7 million.
So you may not have done anything, but you did take
$7 million at that time from other people. And so
they are saying, fine, if you didn't take any
anything, didn't do anything, and that was the
appropriate step, why isn't it the appropriate step
now to give us the 7 million back?
MR. DELLINGER: Justice Breyer, there is a
-- I -- there is a disconnect between when funds are
expended and when they are paid into. There is some
deficit financing, so that the Commission's payment
in 1998 would have been to provide for expenditures
that occurred earlier. So there was no -- there was
-- and there's no suggestion that there is any money
left over. And -- and, how can I put it? North
Carolina doesn't -- never had that money. It went to
the authority in a separate and dedicated fund that
could only be used for the authority's purposes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did North Carolina
continue to fund the authority during this interim
period?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes, North Carolina spent
half a million dollars a year to fund the authority
for the remaining 19 months.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it didn't do nothing
during this period?
MR. DELLINGER: That's correct. And let me
read you --
JUSTICE BREYER: You say -- well -- in
other words, North Carolina's money in '97 and '98,
which was $4 million, went to pay for current
expenditures during North -- during that year,
'97/'98, but the Commission's money, which amounted
to $7 million in that time, was not spent on current
things? It was rather a payment for things done in
the past?
This sounds not -- I'm not -- I mean,
that's possible, but I just don't recall anything
that suggests that.
MR. DELLINGER: North Carolina's 2 million
also would have been paid for past -- there was not
$2 million spent on activities in 1998. That's --
that's the payment of prior bills. There's -- these
--
JUSTICE BREYER: So the whole formula --
MR. DELLINGER: These funds are coming into
the -- coming into the authority.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and the whole --
JUSTICE SCALIA: You have the authority
still in existence, right?
MR. DELLINGER: Right.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Don't they have any
employees?
MR. DELLINGER: Yes, they do. That's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So somebody has to be
keeping the authority alive, right? Who did that?
MR. DELLINGER: The admission of -- the
authority with funds from -- that had come from the
Commission and from the North Carolina General
Assembly. Here's the actual --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So -- wait, wait, wait.
You said all the Commission funds were for prior
expenditures.
MR. DELLINGER: Well, not necessarily.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Oh.
MR. DELLINGER: That is to say -- there was
not $6 million expended during that period. There's
not an exact match-up between that list of when
payments were made and when expenditures were made.
But the record showed that North Carolina spent about
-- I believe about -- the authority spent about half
a million dollars those last 19 months.
Now, here's the -- here's the actual
admission that North Carolina, quote, "did nothing."
Paragraph -- this is at the Plaintiffs' appendix 460.
The admission request was: Admit that North Carolina
took no further steps after December 19th to ensure
that an application for a license was filed.
Response: It is admitted that the
authority was deprived of funding upon notification
from the Commission in or around 1997 that the
Commission was terminating its transmittal to the
authority of portions of funds derived from fees and
surcharges imposed on generators. It is further
admitted that the authority had justifiably relied --
the North Carolina authority -- on the continued
provision of these funds in light of the Commission's
previous words and actions. For this reason, the
authority did not thereafter take -- thereafter take
additional steps to site --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: What about the offer --
what about the offer that Mr. Phillips brought up,
said Commission was ready to pay another $21 million,
and there was going to be loans from the generators?
MR. DELLINGER: That proposal, first of
all, left a significant shortfall, as the master
found. Even with that proposal, which North Carolina
thought there were some legal problems with whether
it would be -- that loans from private generators
would allow bonding of the remaining financing -- the
master says it was still a substantial gap left, even
if North Carolina continued to pay the same amount of
money.
So, with North Carolina willing to continue
to pay at the same rate it had for the previous 8
years, and the Commission unwilling or unable to do
so, it meant that that level of expenditure by North
Carolina would be a worthless expenditure of its
taxpayers' money and the Commission's money.
The Commission's position seems to be that
they should have taken steps just for the sake of
taking steps, like building half a bridge to nowhere,
when you know that there's no financing in sight.
They could have withdrawn on December 19th, and they
took exactly the steps that were appropriate, which
is not to spend money that is futile and wasteful.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I ask you a
question? Is all of this money that has been spent
or was spent up until 1999 -- has it been washed
away? Meaning -- and this may be what remains for
the unjust enrichment claims, but is there any value
left to what occurred?
MR. DELLINGER: I don't know that there is,
Justice Sotomayor. I would not assume there is any
- any value.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's no facility --
MR. DELLINGER: There's no -- as far as I
know, there's no value to North Carolina. There's no
-- in that sense. The -- of the quasi-contract
claims.
Could I turn, if I could, to the
participation of the Commission, which we think
raises a -- a substantial constitutional question?
This is actually, and should be, a very
simple question. States, either at common law or
constitutionally -- for these purposes, it doesn't
matter which side of the fence you are on in Alden.
States have a right not to be subject to suit by
parties that aren't the United States or a sister
State, absent a valid abrogation.
The Commission is neither. It's not a
State, and that should be pure and simply the answer
to the question. The issues are whether somehow
there should be an exception for a compact. It
should be treated like a State and allowed to sue;
or, even if it's treated like any other private
litigant, there is some kind of same-claims exception
-- in fact, there is one case, Arizona, only, which
really addresses this point -- there should be a
same-claims exception.
First of all, with respect to whether the
compact ought to be able to sue as if it were a
State, I think that's resolved -- and this Court,
when it rejected a compact suit in number 131 -- of
- the Commission suit, might have thought the same --
by the Hess case. It says that compacts cannot claim
sovereign immunity. If they don't have the dignity
or status to claim sovereign immunity, they surely
ought not be able to affirmatively pierce the
sovereign immunity of something that is undoubtedly a
State. They are not --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But that was in -- Hess
came up in a different posture. It wasn't -- I think
-- it was an attempt to sue the authority, wasn't it?
MR. DELLINGER: That is -- that is correct.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: So I don't think that
they are at all comparable. This is a case of does
the -- does the authority have standing or -- to
bring the claim.
MR. DELLINGER: You could distinguish them
-- but -- distinguish the two situations. But that
would cut in favor of this situation. You might
think that a compact has the right to sue as if it
were a State, another State, a State, and still think
that -- you might think it had sovereign immunity,
but not that it could bring a suit against a State.
But you certainly wouldn't think that if it's not
even entitled to invoke sovereign immunity on its own
behalf, that it ought to be able to bring it.
But no matter. There's no good argument.
With or without Hess, there is no good argument for
treating a compact as if it were a State. That is a
slippery road --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Why -- why not? I mean,
if it's totally a creature of States -- that's all
it's -- there's no other shareholders, nobody in the
picture, just -- they are all States that create it?
MR. DELLINGER: The States do not control
this private -- this separate entity.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They create it, though.
They -- the States create the --
MR. DELLINGER: The States created it. It
is run by a group of commissioners, two from each
State, who vote individually and are not bound. For
example, the representatives from Georgia and
Mississippi on the Commission voted to bring this
litigation against North Carolina. The States of
Georgia and Mississippi did not decide to join. They
-- they voted differently from where their States
are.
And -- and one of the things about the --
the Commission doesn't have the same constraints that
a State has. The attorney general of Alabama might
think long and hard before submitting an onerous
document discovery request on a sister State and
making that kind of scorched-earth litigation a
practice. Something that's not a State doesn't have
those constraints.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Suppose -- suppose we
think that the same State -- or the same-claim rule
applies, and that if the Commission is asserting the
same claim as the State, that then it can sue.
Suppose that's the rule. Are these the same claims?
MR. DELLINGER: They are -- first of all,
they are not the same claims. The States who gave
$25,000 are trying to claim that the Commission
either is their agent or that they can bring a suit
that restitution ought to be made to the Commission,
that is a -- the short answer is those are different
routes. They are not the same claims, but --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: How can -- how could
they not be, Mr. Dellinger? There's only one
complaint, and that complaint is on behalf of all the
Plaintiffs, not --
MR. DELLINGER: Yes. But you would have
the same last line of a complaint if 1 million people
joined the State who brought an antitrust suit
against another State. It is simply that -- award
the Plaintiffs such damages as this Court deems just
and proper.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But there's no discrete
claim made by the Commission as distinguished from
South Carolina.
MR. DELLINGER: Yes, the Commission is
making a straight-up restitution claim, which, as the
-- the entity that provided the funds, it does not.
But let me say why I think the separate and
-- even if the claims were identical, we don't know,
at this point, that they will wind up being
identical, and States shouldn't have to litigate
until we find out.
The master just says it's not necessarily
the case that they will wind up being identical. Mr.
Phillips says -- counsel for the Plaintiffs said they
would not concede that they would not, at the end of
the day, forgo any claim on behalf of the -- of the
States that the Commission didn't have.
But, most importantly, there is Alden.
Alden makes this a civil case because Alden says that
private suits against non-consenting States present
the indignity of subjecting a State to the coercive
processes of judicial tribunals.
If you allow another party in that's not a
State, you are subjecting a State to all of the
discovery, all of the different theories, all of the
depositions, all of the document requests. A sister
State may, in its attorney general's office, think
twice about doing that. A private litigant will not.
So I think this case is that -- I believe
if you didn't want to overrule Arizona, you could say
it's a case where the United States brought a case in
its role as trustee for the Indian tribes and the
tribes themselves were allowed to intervene, and they
were, therefore, virtually one and the same party.
And you wouldn't need to overrule it. I don't think,
if it stands for any broader principle, it can
survive Alden v. Maine.
Now, if the Commission is out, then we
think there is -- and if you agree that there was no
breach of contract, then I think the Court should
direct the dismissal of the quasi-contract claims
because only the States will be left as a party.
And those claims -- quasi-contract claims
of restitution, it's -- they are claims that are
governed by the subject matter of the compact between
the States, and as to parties to the compact, there
can't be any such claims, and I think that should be
the end of it.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Mr.
Dellinger.
Mr. Phillips, have you 10 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CARTER G. PHILLIPS
ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFFS
MR. PHILLIPS: Thank you, Mr. Chief
Justice.
I would like to respond to a number of the
points that have been made. It seems to me the most
fundamental one that Mr. Dellinger relies upon is the
notion that this $80 million was not the money of the
compact States, and he -- he keeps saying that
repeatedly -- you know, based solely on the fact that
the money doesn't come through the treasury of the
States.
But he ignores, on 12A, article 4(H)(2)(b),
which says, with respect to the levying of the
special fees or surcharges, which was the basis upon
which the entirety of the $80 million comes, that
this must represent the financial commitments of all
party States to the Commission.
It was the understanding that, in
exercising the authority to levy these amounts of
money in order to generate this, that that was the
States' money, all of the States' money, and
ultimately, if this Court would have determined that
the money --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That provision just
says the States don't have to give anything more than
that, that that's what satisfies whatever obligations
they may or may have. But where does it say that
money belongs to them?
MR. PHILLIPS: It says each State hosting
- you know, "shall annually levy surcharges." The
total of those surcharges represent the financial
commitments of all of the party States to the
Commission. That seems to me to say that it is the
commitment of the party States that's -- that's being
provided for in that context.
It's not the money of the Commission. It's
not the money of the generators. It's the money of
the compact States that's being used for whatever
purpose is necessary in order to fulfill the overall
objectives of the compact. In this context, it was
used to ask North Carolina to go forward to site a
facility.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Wait. I don't -- I don't
understand that.
MR. PHILLIPS: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It never passes through
the States, and this provision just waves a magic
wand and says that it represents the financial
commitments of all party States to the Commission.
What proportion from each State? Do we know?
MR. PHILLIPS: We don't know, and we
wouldn't -- and the truth is, at the end --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think all this means is
that that is the only financial commitment that the
States are obliged to -- to make.
MR. PHILLIPS: I think there's no question
that it -- that it can be read as -- as saying that,
which, of course, then tells you, if it's not the
Commission's responsibility and it's not the States'
responsibility, then it was clearly, from the outset
and has always been, North Carolina's.
But I think it goes beyond that, Justice
Scalia. I think it actually tells you, as an
agreement among all of the party States to this
compact, that this is the money of the States, and
ultimately --
JUSTICE SCALIA: It can't be the money of
the States if you can't say how much of it belongs to
each State.
MR. PHILLIPS: Oh, no. You --
JUSTICE SCALIA: That just doesn't make any
sense.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, there would be a way
to allocate it. It seems to me that maybe -- that
either the Commission, based on the vote of the
parties -- the party States, could either allocate it
back on a pro rata basis, or they can do it on the
basis of the percentage of the -- of the waste that
was used in any particular fund.
There's no specific provision on that, but
it seems to me that doesn't detract, Justice Scalia,
from the fundamental point that what the compact
members agreed upon was that this money would be the
money of all of the States. And, therefore, we can't
keep it as a Commission.
JUSTICE STEVENS: But the money that's --
but the money that is talked about in that section,
as I read it, that's money that would be generated
after the facility was completed.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, South Carolina, in
this particular context. The -- immediately, it
would be South Carolina, and ultimately, then --
assuming North Carolina or another State were to site
a facility, then, from there on, that money would
continue to be their commitment.
JUSTICE STEVENS: So you're saying the
money generated by the South Carolina facility was
the money of the compact members?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE STEVENS: And that was the money
that was given to North Carolina?
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, because the compact
agreed among themselves, as part of this agreement,
that the -- that they would have authority to impose
those surcharges on the generators, as they brought
the money in.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But then -- but
those States couldn't take the money. They couldn't
say, I want my share?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I think they could
have, actually.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You are saying it
was their money, but they had no access to it.
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, no, but I -- through
their membership, they certainly did. If the States
agreed to disband the compact and the -- the
Commission disappears and there's $80 million in the
pot, that money's going somewhere. It's not staying
in -- it may get paid for legal fees, but other than
that --
JUSTICE BREYER: How does it work? I mean,
how does it work? The-- there's a -- there's a plant
in South Carolina, and a truck comes up filled with
radioactive waste out of Georgia.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: And they go to a booth,
and now they are charged something. And is the fee
and special surcharge, which this refers to, the
total charge?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: Total charge. And what
does that amount to, primarily? Do we have any idea
on a typical --
MR. PHILLIPS: You mean, in terms as a
percentage off the -- off the normal charges?
JUSTICE BREYER: No -- well, I don't know
how they did it. But, anyway, there's a charge. Say
it's $1,000, or maybe it's $10,000.
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes, that would be a bit
high.
JUSTICE BREYER: So -- so the truck company
has to pay $10,000 to the authority.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, the generator does.
JUSTICE BREYER: And they are saying here
that that $10,000 represents --
MR. PHILLIPS: Represents the commitment of
the States.
JUSTICE BREYER: -- the financial
commitment of all party States to the Commission.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right. And all that's
saying is that that money, even though that -- I
mean, the alternative way to do it, obviously --
JUSTICE BREYER: That money might -- seems
to come from a private company.
MR. PHILLIPS: Right.
JUSTICE BREYER: It comes from a private
company. It goes to the -- it goes to the Commission
-- it goes to South Carolina --
MR. PHILLIPS: Right, and then it comes to
the Commission --
JUSTICE BREYER: -- and they give it to the
Commission.
MR. PHILLIPS: -- and the Commission then
used it in this context. But that's the basic point,
Justice Breyer. If they didn't have this provision,
you would -- you might assume it was the generators'
money or somebody else's money.
The whole point of this provision was to
say these moneys, which can only be levied because of
the compact and the Commission's authority, remain
the responsibility of the States and, ultimately, to
my mind at least, would clearly go back to them.
Justice Breyer, I wanted to answer your
question with respect to findings of breach. January
'98, there is -- the joint supplemental appendix,
page 55, makes the -- is the Commission sanction
order, and April '99 -- and, again, at appendix 323
and appendix 412 -- those are specific findings by
the Commission that there have been breaches.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Could I just understand
-- and I don't know if I am missing something -- your
theory that this belongs to the States relies
exclusively on either an agency or an ownership
theory as alternatives?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: There's nothing else
that would make it --
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I'm relying on this
provision of the compact that says it is the --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That's -- that's -- if
we disagree with that --
MR. PHILLIPS: Then we have an agency
theory as well.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. And then we
have to address that. Is there any other theory that
would give the States the right to make the claims
the Commission is making?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, I mean, yes --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: For the return of the
$80 million.
MR. PHILLIPS: I -- I think that the Court
-- yes, I think the Court would still have the
authority, even in dealing with what is the
appropriate rule of restitution, because we are too
far away from that at this stage. We're not -- we're
not there.
But I think, if the Court finds that North
Carolina breached the compact, it ought to try to
find a reasonable way to remedy that particular
problem, even if the technical standards didn't
apply.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: If we don't do that,
what are you left with?
MR. PHILLIPS: Well, no, Justice Sotomayor,
you do do that. I mean, when the Court in Kansas v.
Colorado was trying --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I already posed a
hypothetical. Don't -- if we don't, what is left of
this case?
MR. PHILLIPS: It seems to me the Court
still has the authority, in deciding what is the
appropriate standard of restitution in a problem as
unique as this one, to do what it did in Kansas v.
Colorado, which is to say: How do we measure the
damages to this party? Let's look at what the injury
was to the farmers who were completely unrelated to
it. They clearly wouldn't -- they weren't parties to
that litigation, and the Court said that's a
perfectly legitimate way to figure out the right
damages. So I think we would still have an argument
that you -- that the Court would have the authority
to grant that form of restitution under these
circumstances.
Mr. Dellinger spent a lot of time on what
strikes me as sort of a complete fantasy with respect
to the funding situation that North Carolina faced.
You know, once South Carolina left, to be sure, we
lost the ability to take money and help North
Carolina. But the notion that North Carolina, if it
had completed this facility, was not going to have a
license to print money in the -- in going forward and
that funding wouldn't have been available back in
those days is not in the record. And, frankly, it's
completely counterintuitive, because they have a
monopoly. That's what the compact specifically
provides for them, is the monopoly to be able to
control the fees that -- on these particular wastes.
Yes, Your Honor?
JUSTICE SCALIA: The ability to withdraw
terminates upon completion of the facility?
MR. PHILLIPS: Yes. Six months afterwards.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Six months afterwards. So
the -- the facility's completed. It's clear they are
going to have to -- they are going to be charging
more than South Carolina, which is a lower cost
facility, having been in existence for longer. Why
wouldn't everybody get out?
MR. PHILLIPS: Because the risk that South
Carolina is going to pull up stakes and stop because
it's been making that noise from the beginning --
that was the reason for the crisis. Washington and
South Carolina said: We're not going to take every
other -- every other State's waste, and we are
getting out of this business. So the risk you would
take in jumping out in the six months is that you
then find out at the back end you have no place to
dispose of your waste.
So the reality is, they had -- all of the
incentives to go forward existed as much in 1997 as
they did in 1995, as they did in 1999. The only
thing that's fundamental here is they had a
responsibility not just to do what was appropriate;
it was to do what was appropriate to get a license,
and that's what they never did. They walked away.
They took no action. Trying to negotiate funding in
the abstract doesn't have anything to do with moving
forward to get a license. On that score, the
authority shut down and closed.
Justice Sotomayor, you asked: Is there any
benefit that remains? Well, the reality is, geology
studies and hydrology studies that get done, those
things don't change for a billion years. So every
one of those studies that was done is going to be
just as valid today 12 years later, although I do
think the right way to analyze this is not in terms
of 12 years later, but what would have happened at
the time.
I thank Your Honors.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:37 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
72:6 73:1 33:4 37:24 76:14 anyway 51:3 29:12 30:16
84:25 Alito 14:23 15:11 82:17 34:18 39:22
88:22 addresses 71:21 allocate 80:4,6 appear 52:21 55:15 60:5 73:2
62:15 administrative allowed 29:22 appears 42:2 Arizona 31:10
21:1,13 admission 68:4 71:17 76:10 appendix 24:1 71:20 76:7
admitted 61:19 alternatives application article 23:20
81:18 advance 58:25 38:1,6 39:8,22 appointed 43:9 77:17
advantage 35:24 58:14 4:23,25 20:12 asked 43:3 44:20
16:17 72:6 amount 6:22 29:15 35:17 assembly 48:5,7
agent 32:11 55:10 69:24 50:18 62:19,21 assert 8:12
35:18 36:1 ago 19:8 amounted 67:5 66:3,3 70:12 74:8
agree 16:20 26:2 amounts 20:16 85:9 86:2 88:2 assertion 35:4,12
88:5 37:5 76:16 77:24 88:3 38:5
41:8 80:13 81:8 analyze 88:15 56:13 57:8 assessing 28:2
79:19 81:8 answer 27:14 argue 6:18 4:22 8:19
7:10,12 AL 1:3 36:2 50:20 51:5 64:6,9,10 46:4
A's 49:23 34:19 39:11 27:16,21 28:8 C 2:1 3:1 51:18
77:6 breached 3:11 39:19
back 14:9,16 68:18 76:6 Breyer 19:12,19 can't 76:24
64:22 38:19 40:11,19 78:8 79:23 21:5,11,14,15 55:1
51:1 54:4 66:4 80:7 benefit 9:20 12:5 23:1,8,14,18,21 captive 49:8
87:21 15:6 61:3 63:16 41:9,14 43:3,17 3:11,21,24 4:5
12:6 backyard 16:7 10:24 11:3,11 59:12 65:12,20 6:20 8:8,11,11
21:15,22 bad 12:15,18 11:15 66:5 67:1,17,20 8:21,22,24 10:2
46:1,3 18:8,19,22 best 5:16 13:21 82:1,6,11,16,21 10:21 11:18,20
49:8 bankrupt 6:11 better 55:18 82:24 83:3,8,11 11:21,25 12:16
55:7,9 bankrupted 6:19 beyond 41:25 83:16,20 84:3 13:13,22 14:18
Barnwell 11:17 79:17 bridge 70:9 16:11,12,15
58:8 12:3 15:17 big 16:22 brief 24:17 41:18 20:11,14 21:8
65:8 66:14 48:22 57:13,25 bill 5:20 30:24 42:3 57:21 23:4 24:5,7,19
67:19 59:10 62:8 billion 59:3 59:22 60:6 25:2,8,10 26:5
68:3,5,18 63:13 64:23,24 88:12 64:21,21 65:1 27:9 32:4 36:25
based 30:13 31:1 bills 67:15 briefs 30:14 44:21 45:18,18
77:24 44:24 45:5 bit 82:19 bring 36:5,22 45:25 46:7,11
82:22 54:19 77:14 blocking 53:7 37:8 51:21 59:1 46:15 47:13,19
85:8 86:1 80:5 blue 42:3 72:16,23 73:1 47:23,24 48:2,4
88:8 basic 24:23 37:25 body 43:12 73:18 74:14 48:6,7,17,19,20
49:19,21 51:3 bondholders broader 76:13 53:12,18 55:12
basis 31:20 33:6 bonding 69:22 39:2 69:14 56:6,13,15,16
bear 41:3 56:8,10 boot 59:25 bugaboo 16:22 57:22,24 58:3,5
58:4 beautifully 54:16 bottom 10:16 55:24 59:11 60:10,24
86:22 beginning 7:4 42:18 building 70:9 61:1,2,17,24
chances 27:11 85:1 46:14,16,24 13:12,25 15:13
70:1 change 61:1 clause 39:4 40:20 47:11,17,20,22 15:23 16:6
73:19 88:12 clear 4:3 5:5,24 48:3,7,11,21 17:11,20 19:14
78:21 changed 18:5 6:1 22:5 31:15 50:10,12,12,13 19:15 24:12,12
29:9,21 58:1 34:1 43:6 53:23 50:17 51:8 52:1 26:1,24 28:20
82:3 charge 82:9,11 62:2 87:8 52:11,16,22 32:1,11 34:10
85:13 82:17 clearly 13:21 53:4 54:17 55:7 34:11 35:6,19
charged 82:7 33:10 79:15 56:2,15,25 35:20,21 36:3
charges 45:23 84:2 86:7 57:23 64:3,13 36:21,21,22,25
35:9 58:24 charging 87:9 57:16 59:2 69:3,4,15 70:3 42:15,24 43:2
63:22 Chief 3:3,9 27:2 63:14 64:15,16 71:4,13 72:2 43:21,25 44:4,6
65:2 27:6,19 29:7 closed 88:8 73:18,24 74:8 44:24 45:1,3,5
79:16 34:15,22 44:12 closer 59:4 74:13,15 75:4,6 45:7 46:20,20
3:7 77:5 cholera 49:15,16 Colorado 85:21 83:15,17,18 53:5,14,16,25
20:3 chosen 61:17 come 9:25 14:12 commissioners 57:15 58:2,11
27:17 Circuit 19:8 24:11 26:6,16 73:15 58:12 59:5,9,15
31:8,10 circumstances 45:21 57:12 Commission's 59:23 60:19,25
34:25 34:14 36:14 61:11 64:15,16 12:5 42:13 60:25 61:6,16
38:3 86:13 68:5 77:15 83:9 47:25 51:6 66:8 61:19 62:17,18
39:4,13 cited 48:3 65:4 comes 25:4 40:13 67:5 69:9 70:6 63:13,17 71:16
56:5 60:6 cites 47:23 44:8 46:19 70:7 79:14 71:24 72:1,20
62:5 citizen 40:5 77:20 82:3 83:25 73:4 76:22,23
72:3,14 civil 75:21 83:11,14 commit 12:12 77:13 78:18,20
76:6,8 claim 8:8 18:9 coming 55:5 22:9 79:20 80:12
85:24 20:2 22:10 28:3 67:18,19 commitment 81:3,7,21 83:25
28:8 30:7,21 Commerce 39:4 78:14 79:9 84:19 85:13
56:8,9 72:3,5 7:2 11:1 13:24 77:21 78:12 41:23 46:6 61:3
31:2,6,14,15,25 30:21 31:5,9,25 committing 51:23 54:19
18:6 54:9 33:20 36:9 38:8 34:3,7,9 35:10 common 39:24 60:12 72:3
81:20 38:25 39:9,17 35:14,19 36:1,4 71:7 compact's 12:5
75:10 76:18,20 40:4 42:13 43:5 10:25 11:4,19 31:13 39:6,10
conduct 23:4,5 contract 5:14,17 counts 13:5 18:3 deal 11:1 19:22
Congress 21:2 10:8,12 11:12 course 17:4 dealing 19:10
41:20 43:12 19:19 20:2 31:23 45:21 deals 12:7 37:18
74:20,20 consensual 45:5 46:20 50:15,22 court 1:1,12 3:10 decade 4:22
47:4 48:15 59:13 76:17 19:4,7 21:25 December 3:22
considered 9:18 46:21 33:9,13 34:13 29:18 49:3 65:5
14:7 56:14 58:16 contractual 34:23 35:9,13 68:24 70:11
18:7 consistent 14:14 10:19 22:13 35:19 36:13,24 decide 9:19
64:1,17 consistently contrast 42:14 37:5,23 38:4,7 14:18 50:6
18:23 contribute 47:22 38:9,10,14,22 60:24 73:20
63:10 constitutional 45:22 56:18,20 44:18 45:4 decides 21:2
86:20 71:5 56:24 57:2 60:21 71:25 deciding 36:8
constitutionally 64:14 75:1 76:17 78:2 86:1
constraints 64:12 86:8,11 19:7 36:12
constructed 87:2 Court's 34:25 57:24 60:9,23
87:5 construction copy 61:5 39:12 declare 13:15
44:5 59:1 correct 6:12,25 56:7 73:9,12,13 51:25
52:3,23 contained 30:14 22:17 28:23 created 73:14 declaring 5:2
contemplate 46:23 66:24 creates 49:5 dedicated 66:14
42:4 49:1 contemplated correctly 15:25 creature 73:7 Defendant 1:22
context 4:25 cost 6:6,7,23 7:7 curiae 1:19 34:20 defense 6:18
83:19 87:10 cut 72:19 deficit 66:8
65:9 66:17 70:1 75:16 88:19 damages 22:10 46:8,23 47:2
continued 64:10 counterintuitive day 6:1 13:10 52:18,24 53:3
52:4 54:4 continuing 4:13 country 45:23 75:18 54:15 55:2,14
10:12 55:6 59:17 days 61:21 86:23 55:21 56:10
60:8 74:16 76:2 76:5 enacting 19:14 35:20 45:24
62:21,23 differently 73:21 dollars 8:2 10:22 enactment 43:25 establishes
64:8 difficult 12:11 27:18 59:3 44:4 50:22,23 36:13
65:4,19 difficulty 26:19 60:17 66:20 52:1,5,8 53:24 establishing
dignity 72:4 68:19 54:3,6,13 51:13 60:12
direct 76:18 dot 52:5,5,5 enforce 45:2 estimated 8:2
directed 43:15 doubt 8:4 enforced 60:21 estimates 7:23
70:20,24 director 24:12 draft 24:24 engages 53:5 7:25
73:10 disagree 84:21 driving 43:7 enlarged 38:10 et 1:3 36:3 42:4
74:11,19 disappears duty 17:21 19:9 enrichment 18:3 evaluate 3:14
75:6 77:3 81:22 24:5 28:25 29:3 56:8,11,12 event 31:14
86:14 disband 81:21 29:6 70:18 everybody 7:19
discrete 75:3 entered 20:25 evidence 6:22
57:10 58:4 easier 34:12 28:13 77:20 60:11 63:19
disposition 55:23 65:2,3 entity 13:10 65:6 73:17
dispute 4:4 38:7 37:9 47:3 51:7 54:25 exclusively
distinguish element 16:25 equal 7:18 48:24 exercise 32:7
47:14 docket 3:5 37:13 38:1,6 error 63:12 67:22 87:11
document 65:4 39:8,21,23 40:3 especially 39:15 expect 10:8
31:21 32:19 employees 67:25 15:19 64:18 66:7
70:4,5 57:21 61:3 financiers 58:6 forward-looking gas 39:6,10
67:4 68:10 facts 4:7 48:2 49:7,8 found 69:19 48:7 55:12
factual 30:3,11 57:25 58:9,16 four 41:19 56:13,16 57:8
fair 19:10 22:21 find 12:11 29:10 86:23 generated 55:6
22:6 23:7 12:15,16,19 87:21 fulfill 3:23 78:19 81:2
18:20,22 19:5 findings 23:21 fully 46:13 25:17 45:23
29:3,6 finds 85:12 26:6 47:3 63:21 69:6,16,21
31:15 32:2 finish 44:2 16:9 77:11 Georgia 33:9
42:22 70:24 85:10 35:25 40:14 funding 4:14 73:17,20 82:4
February 48:12 five-provision 64:11,23 65:9 Ginsburg 4:10
45:4 48:8 60:21 fold 10:3 88:5 9:21 10:20
7:9 11:13 feels 49:15 foot 5:20 45:24 48:5,6 15:21,23 24:16
13:19 fees 48:21 51:21 force 42:11 54:25 55:9 56:17 24:22 25:9,15
16:3,19 52:1 55:6 57:12 foremost 40:14 64:17,18 65:23 25:21 37:14,17
46:11 69:5 77:19 foresaw 50:7 66:6 67:18 68:5 54:23 55:14,22
48:22 81:24 87:2 forgetting 28:18 68:9 69:5,9 61:10,15 64:20
55:18,24 fence 71:9 forgo 75:18 75:8 69:13 72:9,13
58:3,5,13 figure 33:14 86:9 form 86:12 further 4:8 9:1 73:6,12 74:18
59:4 file 35:1 formed 59:21 68:24 69:6 75:3
62:5 filed 68:25 formula 67:17 furtherance 9:1 give 5:9 17:17
64:17 filled 82:3 forum 35:20 41:8 futile 70:13 18:3 22:10,15
78:22 final 44:3 forward 9:4,23 future 25:20 38:19 45:19
81:2 finalized 25:5 18:23 22:3 24:5 58:15 50:8 66:4 78:5
87:5,11 finance 15:7 24:9,11,18 26:7 83:16 85:1
29:22 60:15 77:21 39:4 78:21 3:7 77:5 53:11 81:6
42:24 78:11 79:3,9 86:21 87:24 gain 10:12 giving 34:14
46:6 H identical 30:21 64:19 interstate 60:11
24:5 26:10 63:6 66:20 75:12,15 include 20:21 39:12 76:10
35:3 68:18 70:9 identified 28:6 40:23 60:13 intervened 38:5
52:5 happened 14:4 identifying 36:9 included 8:5 investment
78:21 29:20 48:17,18 ignores 77:17 includes 40:22 26:25
84:2 87:24 56:12 57:14 immediately including 25:25 invitation 34:25
hard 74:1 immunity 30:1 60:15 involved 13:4
8:6,25 9:1 46:18 35:12 38:1,6,11 59:20 irrespective
10:22 hated 49:16 39:24 40:9 45:4 inconsistent 21:19
17:10 head 57:22,23 60:20 72:4,5,7 26:17 issue 3:25 9:17
24:9,9 health 14:14 72:22,25 indebtedness 10:6 13:2 20:2
53:6 16:21 59:18 Impact 23:11 58:8 30:1 32:21 33:2
59:8,10 hear 3:3 impair 60:10 Indian 31:10 issued 58:13
63:7,25 heard 50:20 57:1 impairing 22:14 38:12,14 76:9 issues 35:2 38:8
81:23 65:20 impairs 22:11 indications 5:16 51:8 52:21,23
87:9,9 hearing 29:12 implausible indignity 75:23 71:15
88:13 heart 5:10 18:12 individual 39:10 it's 16:6 23:13
14:6 help 18:4 46:5 implied 17:21 73:16 73:7,8 76:21
86:18 19:9 industry 51:10 I'll 51:4,4
19:5,9 helped 46:9 important 13:9 inescapable 3:20 I'm 84:18
29:3,6 Hess 72:3,9 73:3 20:1 22:13 infer 31:7
59:14 62:3 38:13 41:3,25 information J
73:2,3 49:4 53:19 55:25 56:3 January 1:9 84:4
22:12,15 41:11,16 60:18 injury 86:5 74:24
81:9 insist 14:20 joint 57:20 84:5
8:16,17 69:6 33:10 judge 23:15,17
61:8 intended 58:9 43:19 50:14
60:14 45:8 52:14,16,22
6:18 8:9,12 internal 21:8 judgment 23:4
18:15
85:23
imprisonment interpreted 75:24
33:4 64:20 65:12,14 40:1 41:2,13,17 legislative 43:11 61:16
4:10 5:7,8 66:22 67:1,17 51:14 52:9 legislature 21:7 74:23
6:6,8 67:20,21,24 54:18 21:16 list 31:1,2 68:15
7:5,11 68:2,8,12 69:13 knew 41:23 legislatures lists 51:18
8:1 70:14,21,23 know 7:24 9:10 58:18 litigable 33:11
9:2,9,12 72:9,13 73:6,12 9:11 11:5 13:6 legitimate 33:19 litigant 71:19
10:20 74:6,18 75:3 15:6 16:7,9,13 33:20 86:9 76:5
77:2,8 78:4,23 21:21 25:6 26:8 legitimately litigate 75:12
79:1,8,17,22 26:9 27:10,15 33:11 litigation 31:18
15:10 80:1,11,16 81:1 29:19 31:14 lend 21:2 34:1 73:19 74:3
16:20 81:5,12,17 82:1 40:2 49:7,16,20 lend-lease 20:25 86:8
17:2,5,9 82:6,11,16,21 50:2,23 51:7 let's 17:5,6 29:2 loan 25:2,20
18:14 82:24 83:3,8,11 56:11 60:7 61:6 86:5 loans 69:16,21
19:3,12 83:16,20 84:3 70:10,20,25 level 27:10 64:11 location 57:18
20:4 84:10,16,20,24 75:10 77:14 70:4 long 15:4 20:7
85:4,17,19,22 78:10 79:5,6 levied 83:24 26:20 74:1
87:4,7 88:9,19 82:16 84:11 levy 77:24 78:10 longer 12:17
22:16,23 justifiably 69:7 86:17 levying 77:18 13:17 48:25
liabilities 46:22 58:10 60:16
25:9 K L 61:7 63:5 64:24
26:2,4 Kansas 85:20 language 5:22 liability 12:13 87:11
86:3 50:13 62:20 41:5 look 9:22 15:16
28:6 keep 9:5 10:22 lasted 29:17 liberated 57:15 31:19 42:1,9
17:16 50:3 late 9:3 62:6 license 4:6,8,13 86:5
59:25 63:6 Laughter 45:13 4:18 5:21 7:12 looked 17:9
31:4 80:15 law 19:14 39:24 7:14 11:2,2 lost 20:11 30:9
keeping 50:18 40:13 45:25 20:19,23 25:5 86:18
33:1,6,15 51:5 53:18 68:3 71:7 29:19 55:20 lot 50:25 52:20
34:4,7,15 keeps 77:13 laws 43:23,24 58:13 62:23 86:14
35:23 KENNEDY 44:2,3 50:21,24 68:25 86:21 Louisiana 31:13
37:14,17 12:25 30:19 50:25 52:9 54:2 88:3,7 39:2,3,14
39:20 31:4 34:4,7 leave 35:1 51:12 licensed 29:16 lower 87:10
41:9,14 38:16,23 56:5 led 24:25 licenses 15:19 low-level 13:16
56:23 57:4,6 left 66:12 69:18 licensing 4:24 46:1,2 59:18
45:10 74:6 69:23 70:19 55:25 60:5
46:5,8,18 kept 45:19 63:7 76:19 85:18,23 light 27:12 34:5
49:10,13 key 46:17 86:17 44:21 69:9 M
53:1 kick 25:18 leg 55:16 lightly 41:7 magic 79:2
54:9 kind 13:19 24:18 legal 10:6 30:5,6 limit 61:9 Maine 76:14
55:14 71:19 74:3 30:13,15 32:10 limitation 61:25 major 65:7
56:5,23 Kneedler 1:17 46:16,24 69:20 61:25 62:2 making 74:3
59:12 2:5 34:17,18,22 81:24 limited 15:14 75:7 85:2 87:15
51:22 52:3 missing 84:11 83:6,8,22,22 noise 87:15
81:3 73:18,20 moneys 8:20,22 non-consenting
42:12,19 43:2 misspent 13:1,10 money's 81:23 non-sovereigns
30:5,17 53:2 54:21 65:13 49:6 86:25 87:1 North 1:6 3:5,11
32:3 81:20 mix 31:3 months 63:19 3:21,24 4:5,8
35:2 37:6 memorandum Mobil 21:25 23:6 66:21 68:19 4:11,14,17,21
47:5 53:11 24:24 model 44:25 45:6 87:6,7,20 5:6,19 6:2,17
75:14 mentality 16:8 51:11 54:19 morning 3:4 6:19 8:8,10,11
merely 29:6 58:11 34:25 35:10 10:21 11:20
27:24 7:16 8:2 12:22 35:14,17,17 N 2:1,1 3:1 24:4,7,19 25:2
71:9 73:2 13:11,23,23 41:5,21,22,22 narrowly 50:24 25:8,9 26:5
88:22 14:5,9,11 15:3 42:22 natural 39:5,10 27:9 32:4 35:9
15:8,19 27:1,3,22,25 10:10,11 12:12 necessarily 46:7,11,14
25:7 26:5 29:7,8 30:8,9 12:23,23 13:1,1 68:11 75:14 47:13,18,23,24
27:1 29:14 45:11,15,16,18 13:6 14:7,16,19 necessary 19:13 48:2,4,5,6,17
62:14 46:6 49:25 50:4 15:5,19 17:7 20:23 47:21 53:12,18 55:12
67:9 73:6 50:8,18 51:6 18:4,6,7,16 48:10 49:15,17 55:16,18,23
83:7 55:5,16 56:20 20:16 21:3,7,17 59:17,18 61:18 56:6,12,14,16
85:3,20 57:8,12,13 59:1 22:15 27:13 63:25 78:19 56:19,19,25
58:20 64:11,13 65:23 38:18 40:14,19 needs 30:4,12 60:24 61:1,2,13
65:25 66:4,20 40:22 48:4 negotiate 12:6 61:17,24,24
81:22 85:5 66:11,13 67:2,5 34:21 71:13 65:2,8,10 66:12
40:14,24 41:1,3 70:15 77:12,15 8:11 11:22,22 67:12 68:6,17
54:17 minimum 31:12 78:8,16,17,17 66:13 79:1 88:4 69:19,24 70:1,4
58:25 79:20,22 80:13 nevertheless 70:25 73:19
81:6 16:7 22:25 original 3:5 32:7 87:2 perfectly 86:9
86:16,18 26:11 27:12 35:5,18 36:1,5 particularly period 4:7 11:5
83:7 39:16 61:16 40:18 66:18,23 68:14
54:18 occurred 55:22 73:1 74:15 6:24 7:3 29:23 13:17
October 48:12 outer 22:7 41:23 42:10 39:6 54:8
69:13,14 overall 42:1 54:24 71:11 person 43:14
31:12 9:18 10:7 19:13 Phillips 1:15 2:3
39:7 23:24 49:10,18 P 3:1 35:10,16 37:4 4:10,21 5:11,22
77:9 onerous 74:1 52:20 79:19 80:6 83:4 12:18,21 13:2
12:12 opening 47:12 parallel 31:6 26:10 21:10,13,21
22:4 26:6 operable 61:13 38:24 patriae 39:9,17 22:21,24 23:3
27:8 28:5 operating 49:2 parens 39:9,16 pay 5:6,25 10:9 23:13,16,20,24
29:15,16 operation 15:10 part 10:25 11:4 15:2 16:14 24:21,23 25:11
32:7 38:24 57:25 13:3,25 14:3 25:17 51:1,21 25:19,24 26:3,8
57:16 operational 58:4 16:6 25:22 27:9 67:3 69:15,24 26:19,22 27:4
61:22 62:5 41:5 44:9 49:21 70:2 82:22 27:14 28:4,16
41:12,15 opinion 19:7,11 65:3 81:8 40:15 30:2,10,15,24
61:9 52:15 60:7 participants payment 7:2 31:11 32:12,15
78:6 opposed 27:12 10:9 51:25 66:8 67:7 32:18,25 33:5,8
posed 85:22 primitive 40:16 proposed 61:6 qualifications
83:1,5,10 position 13:21 principal 35:8 61:18 43:8,13,18 44:5
84:15 14:23 27:2,4 principle 38:13 proposing 35:24 52:2
85:3,6 53:25 58:9 65:8 40:7 76:13 proposition 6:15 quarter 59:3
87:6 70:7 principles 37:25 21:16,22 quasi-contract
possibility 31:24 40:8 prospect 58:24 71:1 76:18,20
53:24,25 58:10 60:22 22:17 67:15 25:13 34:13 20:7 25:12
87:21 58:6 76:5 83:9,11 56:15,17 75:8 35:25 36:24
38:9 42:2,17,22 problem 13:16 48:4 51:20 87:1 44:20 45:12
3:8 powers 10:25 31:22 58:19 24:25 25:2 48:4 53:17 55:4
74:21 42:13,15,23 59:16 85:15 64:17 70:15 71:5,7,15
77:6 43:1 48:1 54:21 86:2 provision 17:13 79:11 84:4
82:2 precedent 19:3 process 4:15 7:4 80:10 83:20,23 quit 44:21 48:18
39:18 40:3 processes 75:24 pull 87:14 47:20 51:13
10:13 11:7 preclude 58:12 project 6:23 7:7 pure 30:12,15 quoted 50:13
13:3 prefer 37:24 8:3,14,16,23,25 56:4 71:14
19:16 preliminary 35:3 15:7 18:4,7 purpose 4:12 R
28:1 premature 33:25 24:8 28:23 59:2 5:13 78:19 R 3:1
32:2,5 present 75:22 63:9 purposes 46:1,2 radioactive
41:17 45:8 presented 30:6 projects 15:1 55:9,13 66:15 59:18 82:4
51:11 presents 10:7 promise 22:13 71:8 raises 71:5
59:14 pretty 12:10 promoting 5:13 pursue 4:6,13 ran 51:14
75:11 26:11 31:19 proper 75:2 pursuing 55:20 range 16:24
83:19,23 43:6 properly 13:6 put 7:19 19:21,21 rata 80:7
refused 20:11 65:22 14:21 46:12 85:1 86:9 88:15
52:10 24:21 29:18 represent 77:21 responsibility rights 42:5
66:25 regarded 40:5 78:11 4:22 5:6,24 6:5 risk 87:13,19
80:18 regarding 14:25 representatives 16:10,18 24:15 road 73:5
49:6 represents 79:3 79:14,15 84:1 27:2,6,19 34:15
regulated 51:10 repudiate 5:3 rest 50:21 77:2 81:12,17
87:23 rejecting 35:11 24:6 28:12,12 86:2,12 rough 45:7
relating 43:25 repudiating 10:2 resulted 46:10 roughly 60:6
71:21 52:7 53:24 54:2 10:18 20:7 22:4 return 55:4 85:4 routes 74:17
37:23 relevant 30:17 request 68:23 58:7,16 74:10 85:9
69:10 43:2 74:2 revenues 32:14 run 24:10 49:23
relied 69:7 requests 76:3 47:14 64:24 49:24 59:25
20:16 41:6 required 36:14 revisit 32:4 running 26:25
48:13 relies 77:11 39:13 45:1 revival 55:17 50:4
84:12 53:15 64:4 revocation 42:6
remain 45:1 requirements right 4:21 7:17 34:18
69:22 54:13 17:15,18,24 sake 70:8
88:10 resolved 21:25 23:18 24:21 71:19,22
38:15 40:7 remedy 3:25 respect 7:6 19:25 29:4 30:10,24 40:24 53:5,6
47:9,20 27:16 34:13 23:9,21 28:7 32:12,25 33:5,8 84:6
37:9 85:14 35:25 37:12 33:23 36:4 sanctioned 11:8
24:1 26:22 31:23 43:4 44:7 45:20 47:8 48:18 51:4 sanctions 3:13
31:7 renew 32:4 46:22 52:24,25 53:11 57:1,6 23:25 35:7,15
86:23 repay 58:7 53:3 71:23 60:14 61:11 40:12,13 41:21
repeatedly 6:4 respond 77:9 67:23 68:3 60:15,15
77:14 60:8 65:14 69:1 80:20 81:7 82:5 satisfies 78:6
22:1 24:13 52:12 54:10 single 45:20 sounds 12:10 squandering
66:1 71:1 80:2 sink 28:22 67:9 64:2
79:12 sentence 19:15 sister 13:25 source 47:14 stage 35:1 38:3
82:24 19:22 50:21 71:11 74:2 76:3 48:21 64:23 85:10
separate 9:16 sit 9:24 31:17 South 11:18,21 stakes 87:14
19:8,20 73:11 75:9 56:2 61:14,18 48:23,25 49:2 standards 85:15
40:21 September 48:13 69:12 78:21 57:14,24 58:5 standing 37:18
43:18 sequence 51:17 80:23 58:23 59:3,11 72:15
48:11 series 59:21 sites 15:17 22:7 62:1 63:13,14 stands 76:13
51:19,24 set 42:14 55:7 situated 55:18 64:16 75:5 start 13:20
72:3 65:5 situation 17:22 80:20,22 81:2 starts 43:18
sets 48:1 18:5 72:19 82:3 83:13 state 6:17 12:14
78:5,9 seven 58:18,18 86:16 86:17 87:10,13 12:21 13:19,21
84:19 seventh 54:20 situations 72:18 87:17 14:13 15:1,2,4
shareholders 87:6,7,20 11:20 25:1 19:13 20:14
19:3 73:8 slippery 73:5 sovereign 30:1 21:17,18,18,20
26:2,4,10 sheds 44:21 sole 23:17 51:8 32:23 33:2 23:8 37:19
28:20 shelf 22:7 52:14 38:11 45:4 39:13,16 40:5
54:9 short 74:16 solely 37:1 77:14 60:20 72:4,5,7 41:5 42:4,19
62:13,22 shortfall 69:18 Solicitor 1:17 72:22,25 44:3 45:6,17
63:3,16 shorthand 45:19 solve 59:15 special 3:19 4:3 47:8,15 49:17
65:14 show 31:5 38:24 somebody 68:2 6:8 30:4,17 49:22,22,23
67:21 46:13 83:22 31:23 32:3 51:9,18,25,25
68:2,8,12 showed 68:17 sorry 7:15 15:22 33:24 35:1,3 53:6,14 56:18
79:1,8,18 shows 7:6 30:20 37:16 78:25 37:6 53:10 55:8 56:24 57:2,10
80:1,11 41:22 65:21 sort 31:17 39:21 65:22 77:19 58:2 59:4,23
shut 88:8 40:15 86:15 82:8 61:4,8,22 71:12
side 22:2 25:25 6:14,21 7:5,11 21:22 23:22 72:8,21,21,21
40:15 signed 25:22,23 18:14,19 28:14 24:12 37:24 75:23 76:1,1,4
significance 28:17 29:2,5,14 41:21 86:25 78:9 79:5,24
80:17 significant 6:22 32:6,13,16,19 speed 47:11 statement 4:7
31:7 49:10 similar 21:6 33:18 35:23 65:11 70:13 statements 3:15
simple 44:19 36:18 46:5,8,18 spending 63:5 states 1:1,13,19
12:16 14:14 84:10,16,20,24 66:19 67:6,14 14:24 19:5 23:6
34:2 65:16 68:24 suggestion 60:9 49:25 50:8 56:5 31:20,22 62:8
69:12 70:8,9,12 66:11 59:13,24 64:3 66:11 68:14
36:13 Stevens 14:2 suggests 5:18 65:7,16,24 66:1 70:10,23,24,25
37:2 16:20 39:20 26:15 67:11 69:11,11 81:13 73:2,8 74:19
38:4,5,19 80:16 81:1,5 suit 39:2,5 71:10 86:18 87:17,20 75:3 79:11
39:3,5,9 stop 87:14 72:1,2,23 74:14 taken 14:11 17:6 80:10 81:22
41:7,10 stopped 17:12 74:24 70:8 82:2,17
43:8,9 24:5 suits 75:22 talk 12:15 thing 9:5,17
44:25 storage 13:16 sums 38:17 talked 50:24 17:18 23:11
60:5 63:25 80:17 40:13 88:1
47:7 store 59:17 sunk 17:7 26:24 talking 26:23 things 9:7 39:1
49:11,14 straight-up 75:7 55:20 27:17 40:22,23,25
51:19,20 stream 58:7 supplemental talks 50:21 67:7,7 73:23
52:2,9 strikes 18:11,13 57:20 84:5 tax 39:3,6 88:12
54:2 58:21 86:15 SUPPORT taxpayers 4:12 think 5:15 6:21
60:1,4,12 strong 26:11 34:21 39:14 64:3 70:6 7:8 8:10 9:14
61:23 structure 35:5 supported 27:23 technical 85:15 13:4,8 14:10,15
71:7,10,11 42:1 supporting 1:20 tell 32:2 33:1 14:17 16:4
studies 55:11 suppose 21:1 tells 79:13,18 17:21,22 18:21
74:12 88:11,11,13 74:6,6,10 temptation 26:10 19:1 22:21 24:1
subject 28:24 supposed 20:18 tender-hearted 24:25 25:3
38:7 42:5 55:3 41:9,10 50:5 26:5 27:14,19,20
62:18 71:10 Supreme 1:1,12 terminated 9:8 28:4,6,25 29:13
76:22 surcharge 82:8 terminates 87:5 30:15,16,17
79:2,4,10 subjecting 75:23 surcharges 69:6 terminating 69:4 31:11 33:21,23
76:1 77:19 78:10,11 termination 34:12 36:11,17
81:13 submit 58:17 81:10 42:12 55:1 37:11,25 38:13
83:2,4 submitted 88:20 sure 7:20 8:20 terms 11:1 28:19 38:21,23 39:15
85:1 88:22 14:4 18:8 36:7 29:9 31:3 39:23 39:17 40:1,2,5
87:18 substantial 86:17 82:14 88:15 41:25 42:8,21
22:11 58:1 47:16 44:12 77:1,2,7 53:9 56:4,21
subtle 29:13 suspension 42:5 that's 13:21 65:1 71:4,25
65:17 71:24 72:11,20 T 38:13 54:7 57:4 72:22,24 74:1,7
74:9 T 2:1,1 71:25 73:7 74:4 75:9 76:4,6,12
suggest 26:13 11:19 15:4 theories 76:2 79:8,11,17,18
28:11 suggested 36:12 17:10 18:7 theory 84:12,14 81:15 85:6,7,12
46:12 63:11 20:12,17,18 84:23,25 86:10 88:15
suggesting 29:6 22:18 28:11,19 there's 16:14,25 thinking 49:13
64:3 32:16 29:15,18 46:12 17:23 20:6 thinks 50:10
65:14 true 15:17,18 unique 86:3 waiver 60:20 we've 26:25 27:1
72:2 trustee 76:9 United 1:1,12,19
try 8:7 14:7 33:25 34:24 36:13 46:7 whatsoever
trying 41:14 76:8 2:7 44:15 55:13 61:16
16:2 turned 16:21 unwilling 70:3 53:17 56:23,25 willingness
28:21 24:20 25:14 up-front 9:22 60:24 76:7 63:23
35:11,11 turns 18:8,19,22 use 8:22 56:1 81:14 win 20:1,2 23:2,2
45:9 twice 24:13 76:5 58:15 wanted 41:24 23:3
61:12 two 26:17 35:8 useful 56:22 84:3 wind 75:11,15
65:22,25 39:1 72:18 60:10 wants 59:20 withdraw 10:14
86:14 73:15 users 55:6 washed 70:16 11:6,25 12:14
typical 82:13 Utah 15:18 Washington 1:8 19:14 20:9
35:8 28:5 v 1:5 3:5 31:13 50:6 62:3 72:10 58:3 60:14
ultimately 8:22 33:9 36:13 38:2 72:11 61:12,22 62:1,4
unbondable 62:8 value 22:11,14 59:18 60:5 64:1 10:15 12:15,16
understand 6:4 vehicle 34:13 87:22 22:18 42:11
46:14 59:20 37:6 way 6:23 7:2 13:8 17:12,13 61:19
76:9 36:17,20 72:7 73:18,21 55:6 56:14 62:7 29:17 48:19,20
unfortunate 15:1 62:16 66:13 57:15
W
69:10 $200 15:3 1995 12:1 48:19 7
$25,000 45:22 1996 3:22 47:10 54:24 55:1 66:4
$3 64:11 1997 3:22 4:9 43:15 44:9
40:20 72:24 $7 64:13 65:23 87:24 7(H) 61:20
79:7 86:7 65:25 67:6 1998 66:9 67:14 77 2:11
87:12 $75 7:10 59:1 1999 4:9 20:8
27:1 30:8 80 14:9,11 15:6
59:25 62:16 63:5,17 57:12
81:22 88 48:12
89 48:12
64:11 20 8:2 15:10 56:4
67:4 2010 1:9 9
19:8 1 74:23 26 41:18 96 65:5
49:22 10 4:3 55:21 77:4 27 41:18 97 9:15 10:3
56:4 10:06 1:13 3:2 62:16 67:2,5
62:17 100 15:6 3 98 65:15 67:2,5
70:3 11 1:9 3 2:4 84:5
11a 42:16,18 30 8:2 61:21 99 84:7
77:17 34,000 7:12
17:10
65:5
42:14 49:22
42:16
77:17
24:2
10:22
19 63:19 66:21
2:8
68:22
