IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
SOUTH CAROLINA, :
Plaintiff :
v. : No. 138, Orig.
NORTH CAROLINA. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, October 13, 2009
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 1:00 p.m.
APPEARANCES:
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf
of the Plaintiff.
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ., Assistant to the Solicitor
General, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting the Plaintiff.
H. CHRISTOPHER BARTOLOMUCCI, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on
behalf of the Intervenors.
CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR., Solicitor General,
Raleigh, N.C.; on behalf of the Defendant.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Plaintiff 3
ERIC D. MILLER, ESQ.
On behalf of the United States, as amicus
curiae, supporting the Plaintiff 17
H. CHRISTOPHER BARTOLOMUCCI, ESQ.
On behalf of the Intervenors 26
CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR., ESQ.
On behalf of the Defendant 45
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
DAVID C. FREDERICK, ESQ.
On behalf of the Plaintiff 57
P R O C E E D I N G S
(1:00 p.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We will hear
argument this afternoon in Case 138 in our original
docket, South Carolina v. North Carolina.
Mr. Frederick.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF
MR. FREDERICK: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
South Carolina seeks an equitable
apportionment with North Carolina of the Catawba River.
Both States act as parens patriae on behalf of all users
of the river within their boundaries.
For three reasons, this Court should not
adopt the Special Master's recommendation that
Charlotte, Duke, and the Catawba River Water Supply
Project be permitted to intervene as parties in this
original action:
First, the report articulates the wrong
legal test for intervention. Second, under the New
Jersey v. New York standard, none of the three entities
should be permitted to intervene. And, third, the
report's approach to intervention involves this Court in
deciding intramural disputes between and among water
users in one State.
With respect to the first point, the Special
Master applied the wrong factors, we would submit, in
deciding whether or not a party or an intervenor should
be allowed to intervene as a party.
The Special Master sought to distill from
this Court's cases three principles that we would submit
are not the appropriate principles in deciding an
intervenor's status.
First, the report overemphasizes the, quote,
"direct stake," although the master found that the
equitable apportionment had no specific impact on
individual users of the water.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I thought your
friends agreed that the New Jersey v. New York standard
applied?
MR. FREDERICK: Your Honor, part of what you
will be deciding in this case is the appropriate
standard for intervention, and the Special Master, we
respectfully submit, did not apply the New Jersey v. New
York factors. Instead, the report distilled from other
cases, not the New Jersey v. New York case, the
principles that she thought should apply to govern an
intervenor's status, and those three principles, we
would submit, are incorrect.
Under the New Jersey v. New York standard,
the master did not make findings that would be
appropriate to determine the intervenor status here as
appropriate parties. There was no finding of inadequate
representation by either State to support any of the
intervenor's request to participate as parties. There
was no finding of a compelling interest in the sense
that it was truly compelling. It's hard to argue in
cases in -- where there is no case from this Court in
the equitable apportionment area that three intervenors
would have met the compelling interest standard here.
And, finally, the New York-New Jersey
standard talks about having interests that are apart
from other interests. But both Charlotte and the
Catawba River Water Supply Project are simply acting on
behalf of all users of North Carolina water. They
simply happen to be the largest ones.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Frederick, we -- we had
a case involving, what, a tax on -- on oil companies, in
which it was a State against State case, but we allowed
the oil companies who would pay the tax to intervene.
Now, why is that any different from this
case?
MR. FREDERICK: First, the interests were
different. They were not an equitable apportionment
where the water --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why does that make any
difference?
MR. FREDERICK: This Court has said for 200
years that water is a unique resource within the
sovereign control of States.
In the Maryland case, the Court permitted
intervention in a situation in which Louisiana had sued
the pipeline companies in Louisiana State court for a
declaratory judgment that its tax was constitutional.
There was also a pending FERC action in Federal court in
Louisiana raising the same issue, so when Maryland and
eight other States who were not parens patriae of the
various pipeline companies who sought to intervene filed
the original action, I think the Court appropriately
considered that interests of judicial efficiency called
for handling the Commerce Clause challenge in the
original action in this case.
And finally, the Court only devoted two
sentences of its opinion and didn't cite the New Jersey
v. -- New York v. New Jersey case in acting on the
intervention.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, well, these ­ these
are rules that we are making up ourselves, right, as to
when we are going to allow intervention or not? Do ­-
is there any case -- I think there isn't, but tell me if
I'm wrong -- is there any case in which we have rejected
intervention that has been recommended by the Special
Master?
MR. FREDERICK: I don't think I can recall a
case in that factual scenario, but I can point you to
Kentucky v. Indiana in 1930, in which this Court
rejected Kentucky's attempt to join individual Indiana
citizens as parties in an original action over
Indiana's alleged breach of a contract to build an
interstate bridge. And the reason --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I understand your
basic argument that each State should represent its own
constituents. But isn't the Catawba River Water Supply
Project in a different category? Because it straddles
both States, and I think it can reasonably fear that it
would be treated as a stepchild by both States.
MR. FREDERICK: No, in fact,
Mr. Chief Justice, I would submit they have the weakest
claim to intervention in this case.
Their argument, fundamentally, is that Union
County, North Carolina, which is the North Carolina part
of the joint venture with the Lancaster Water District,
should be permitted to have water purchased from the
South Carolina side of the boundary. So what's
happening with that water project is the water is sucked
out on the South Carolina side and piped north for Union
County's consumption under a Union County permit with
the State of North Carolina. Union County, therefore,
is acting as any other user of water, along with
Charlotte and all other users of water in North
Carolina.
The Catawba Project is not here to intervene
to protect its interests on the South Carolina side of
the boundary. Those are adequately protected, we
submit, by the attorney general acting on behalf of the
State. So in effect the Union County, North Carolina,
claim here of 5 million gallons of water per day which
they are seeking to protect through their intervention
is no different than the other interests of North
Carolina water users that they are seeking to protect --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, except that these --
these three entities are the principal entities that are
guilty of interbasin transfers, which is essentially
what the -- what the dispute is about.
MR. FREDERICK: The dispute is about the
transfer of water and consumption of water in toto. The
Court --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, but the focus -- the
focus of the complaint is upon interbasin transfers,
isn't it?
MR. FREDERICK: The focus of the complaint
highlights interbasin transfers to the extent that they
are a large quantifiable amount of water being taken out
of the Catawba River, that we submit should not be
counted on --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Exactly. And these three
entities account for a very large proportion of those
interbasin transfers. Isn't it the case that any -- any
decision by -- by this Court on -- on this question will
necessarily impact directly these three entities?
MR. FREDERICK: No.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Why not?
MR. FREDERICK: Because in an equitable
apportionment case, this Court decides which share of
the water is allocable to each State. It is a question
of State law how each State shall determine the
intrastate allocations of the water. So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I understand that, but I'm
talking about the real world. If -- if indeed North
Carolina has to cut back, and if indeed the opinion of
this Court says that it's taking too much because of
interbasin transfers, as a practical matter these three
entities are going to be out of luck.
MR. FREDERICK: We take the real world, Your
Honor, as this Court's cases direct us, and those cases
tell us that in situations where the Court is deciding
an equitable apportionment between two States -- water,
of course, is fungible. It's a series of molecules that
do not accord property rights in any one entity or user.
They all divine from the State itself.
So if North Carolina, in its exercise of
parens patriae responsibility, determines that Charlotte
should have a larger share than what it currently has,
that's a decision for Charlotte -- for North Carolina as
a political entity to decide among its users. It does
not necessarily implicate this Court's action in an
equitable apportionment to say that what the Court will
ultimately decide is what Charlotte's share is. That is
not what we are seeking, and that's not what an
injunction from this Court equitably apportioning the
Catawba River would necessarily decide.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Are you --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Frederick, if this
were an ordinary civil case, we would be guided by the
rule on permissive intervention, and appellate courts in
dealing with that rule give a healthy measure of respect
to the trial judge's determination.
So even though the civil rules are not
binding in original jurisdiction cases, isn't that a
sound approach that we should adopt? Just as a court of
appeals would defer to a district judge's decision, so
we should give a healthy measure of deference to the
Special Master's evaluation that this will be useful.
MR. FREDERICK: No, for several reasons,
Justice Ginsburg. First, in any appellate review
Situation, this Court would review de novo the legal
test that would be applied. Our initial submission is
the master applied and articulated the wrong legal test.
So you would first need to determine, we would submit,
what is the correct legal test for submission. That is
a de novo review standard.
But secondly, the Court has said in numerous
original cases it does not apply deference, although it
gives appropriate respect to special masters, and so
there would be no basis for applying a deference
standard to a special master ruling on a question of law
that fundamentally is about what this Court's original
jurisdiction under Article III is supposed to be about.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But, in fact, we've never
rejected a special master's desire to -- to have
intervenors in the case.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, virtually every case,
Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And that oil case that I
mentioned. I forget the name of it. The tax --
MR. FREDERICK: Maryland v. Louisiana.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes. What had the Special
Master recommended in that case?
MR. FREDERICK: There was actually no
special master recommendation in that case. The Court
decided it on its motion directly to this Court.
Virtually all of the cases that we cited in
the blue brief highlight the fact that special masters
routinely reject motions to intervene. It is the rare
situation in which a special master would allow
intervention.
And the only example that the other side can
come up with is the Nebraska v. Wyoming case, in which
finally Basin Electric, after 10 years of participating
in the original action as an amicus, was allowed to
intervene because the Special Master viewed there to be
tension between the State of Nebraska's interest and
that that Basin Electric was seeking to vindicate. You
--
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Frederick, can we go
back a little? I think you just said there was no
special master's recommendation in
Maryland v. Louisiana, but I'm looking at page 745. In
the footnote 21, it said: "The master recommended that
we grant the motion of 17 pipeline companies to
intervene as plaintiffs." And then it says: "It is not
unusual to permit intervention of private parties in
original actions."
MR. FREDERICK: And the case that it cited
is Oklahoma v. Texas, which is a very unusual case from
this Court's docket in the 1920s. What the Court
decided in 1932, Justice Ginsburg, in the Wyoming and
Colorado case was that in situations involving
interstate allocations of water, the claimants or users
of a State are deemed to be represented by the State.
The case on which the Court relied in the Maryland case
was back into an old era in which it was unclear whether
States acting as parens patriae had the responsibility
to act on behalf of all claimants or users of water.
The Maryland case, as I said before, did not
analyze the New Jersey v. New York factors, and I would
submit that in light of the other circumstances of the
case, the fact that it was a Commerce Clause challenge
involving Federal, State, and private companies, in
which there was multiple litigation pending in various
forums, it was an exercise of the Court's decision to
efficiently decide the Commerce Clause challenge to
allow those pipeline companies in, where some of those
pipeline companies were not represented by States that
were parties in the case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I -- I guess I
haven't heard yet an answer to Justice Ginsburg's first
question about whether there was a recommendation from
the Special Master or not.
MR. FREDERICK: Well, I -- I will -- I
obviously forgot about footnote 21 of the Court's
opinion in Maryland v. Louisiana, Justice Ginsburg. But
I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Counsel, I don't know
that you've actually addressed the operative question of
what amount of discretion, if any, are we going to give
to special masters to determine when they require the
presence of a party to do equity, which is what I read
the Special Master to be suggesting. These are the
three biggest users of water, at least one of them
straddles both States, another has a potential license.
And so that each of them has a different situation than
a normal water user.
So, you're -- all you're begging is the
question of whether we just say you can't. But why is
the "you can't" compelled, either by our case law or by
any original jurisdiction principle?
MR. FREDERICK: Well, let's start with the
original jurisdiction principle. Those are actions that
are brought invoking this Court's original jurisdiction,
which this Court could sit without a special master
and would decide the matter as it sits as a court of
nine. The fact that it appoints a special master to
assist and facilitate that effort does not imbue the
actions of that person delegated that responsibility
with something akin to the deference given to district
judges in making various fact findings.
Secondly, on a question of law, as
intervention fundamentally is -- and ultimately we are
talking about the scope and contours of this Court's
exercise of original jurisdiction -- what the Court has
said is that there are two interests that are ultimately
being protected: One is the dignity interest of the
State acting in its sovereign capacity on a subject,
water, that quintessentially is sovereign; and it is
doing so for judicial efficiency purposes, because it
allows the Court to expect each State to represent
adequately all of the users of water in that State.
So, for those reasons, we think that a
special master recommendation ought to be reviewed with
the same level of scrutiny that all other aspects of a
special master's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, we've -- we've
allowed private parties to be impleaded by the States.
We have allowed one State to sue another State and a
private party.
MR. FREDERICK: Not in an equitable
apportionment. And -- and I think the -- the scope of
the relief is important. And that is because the State
seeking the relief is assuming the risk that the relief
that it wants to get from that State is an inadequate
form of relief.
Here the form of relief South Carolina seeks
goes only against North Carolina. We cannot get an
equitable apportionment with Charlotte or the Catawba
Project. We can only get it from North Carolina.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I see your light's on, but
can we take this case on the assumption that nothing
that you obtain in the way of relief will affect Duke
Power under the comprehensive relicensing agreement?
MR. FREDERICK: Yes --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Don't we have to take the
case on the assumption that their rights under that
agreement might be affected?
MR. FREDERICK: They might be affected, but
only in an ancillary way. It is an -- part of an
application to the FERC. The FERC here is saying it
does not affect it because the license itself will not
dictate minimum --
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But are you saying you are
not seeking a result that's inconsistent in any way
with that agreement?
MR. FREDERICK: Neither the agreement ­- and
this is at page 51 to 52 of our brief, citing 39 of the
CRA -- says it doesn't affect water rights. The final
environmental impact statement from FERC says it doesn't
affect apportionment interstate issues. Both FERC and
the CRA itself disclaim any impact on the equitable
apportionment action pending here.
If I could save the balance of my time.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Frederick.
Mr. Miller.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF ERIC D. MILLER
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE PLAINTIFF
MR. MILLER: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
In order to intervene in an original action
in this Court, a citizen of a State that is a party to
the action must show a compelling interest, separate
from that of other citizens, that is not properly
represented by the State. In an equitable apportionment
action, the interest that is at stake is not a private
property interest in water. Rather, it is the sovereign
interest of a State in a particular share of the
waters of an interstate river. For that reason, a
private interest in water is not an appropriate basis
for intervention in such a proceeding.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It depends on, I suppose,
on what you mean by "is not properly represented by the
State." If you think the State does not have a
sufficient interest to defend that -- that particular
right vigorously, might that not be -- might not that
qualify?
MR. MILLER: Well, I think that the interest
that the private party has is a State law property
interest in water, and that's an interest that simply
isn't at stake in an equitable apportionment action.
The only thing that this Court is deciding is what share
of the river does each State get.
The Court in an equitable apportionment
action does not decide the purely intrastate question of
how will that share be allocated.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I think you could say that
realistically when you are talking about an individual
water user, a small potatoes water user, a normal
resident of Charlotte perhaps. But when you are talking
about the biggest entities that are going to be affected
by the apportionment, it really doesn't ring true to me.
MR. MILLER: Well, that -- I mean, in New
Jersey v. New York, Philadelphia, which sought to
intervene in that case, constituted a majority of the
water users within the State of Philadelphia.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did the special master
think Philadelphia should have been let in?
MR. MILLER: I don't recall what the special
master --
JUSTICE SCALIA: The answer is no.
MR. MILLER: -- said in that case. But this
Court has held in, for example, Colorado v. New Mexico,
that even on purely factual questions, the special
master is -- who makes recommendations, and those
recommendations are reviewed by this Court de novo. The
Court is not sitting in an appellate capacity. This is
a case within its original jurisdiction, and this Court
has an independent responsibility to make a
determination, even on factual questions and a fortiori
on questions of intervention.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, but we haven't -- we
haven't been sitting there trying to figure out what
would facilitate the proceeding. Much of the discovery
in the case has already focused on these three entities,
hasn't it?
MR. MILLER: That's right. And to the
extent --
JUSTICE SCALIA: So to say that they are
just -- you know, they are just Joe Dokes is ­- is
really very unrealistic.
MR. MILLER: Well, to the -- I mean, to the
extent that they have valuable information to provide,
third-party discovery can take account of that, as can
amicus participation. It would be entirely appropriate
for parties that have information or a special
perspective on the case to present an amicus submission
to the Special Master or to this Court. And it's -- but
that -- that's not a basis for allowing them to become
full parties through intervention.
And then, to the extent that there's a
concern about the management of this case, I think it's
important to keep in mind that the rule recommended by
the Special Master and the rule that the would-be
intervenors are urging this Court to adopt would, of
course, apply not just in this litigation, but in every
equitable apportionment action. And not only does it
make the litigation of those actions much more difficult
to have additional non-State parties in, but it makes it
much more difficult for those cases to be settled.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, if that -- if and
when that is the case, the Special Master will not want
them to come in, as the vast majority of special masters
have not wanted them to come in, in the past. I don't
think that's going to change.
MR. MILLER: I -- I guess what I would
say is that I don't think that, either in the
recommendation of the Special Master in this case or in
the submissions of the -- the would-be intervenors, that
there's really any logical limiting principle that
would not allow, as a matter of routine, large water
users to come in to equitable apportionment actions.
And that's inappropriate for the more
fundamental reason that these original actions in this
Court are not ordinary cases. This Court has said that
sitting in judgment between two sovereigns is one of the
most grave -- grave and delicate responsibilities the
Court has, and it's a sparingly exercised jurisdiction
reserved for the most serious of issues, issues of such
importance that, if the States were independent
countries, would be resolved through treaties or --
JUSTICE SCALIA: But not reserved
exclusively to State -- to suits between a State and
another State. We've allowed it to cover suits between
a State and another State and private citizens of the
other State.
MR. MILLER: Yes. And when a State brings
such an action or seeks to bring such an action, it
can't simply file a complaint as of right. It has to
seek this Court's permission to file the complaint. And
this Court can review the complaint at that time and
look at who the parties are and figure out whether it's
an appropriate case for the exercise of this Court's
jurisdiction. And that, in our view, is a much more
appropriate way to proceed, making that determination at
the outset on the basis of the State's complaint, rather
than through piecemeal litigation as different non-State
parties --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, here the complaint
was South Carolina's complaint, and these are
intervenors on North Carolina's -- on North Carolina's
side.
MR. MILLER: That's where they were seeking
to intervene on North Carolina's side as defendants.
That's right.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And as representing the
position of the United States, would you address the
FERC license that Duke Energy is raising?
MR. MILLER: Yes, Your Honor. Under section
27 of the Federal Power Act, which is 16 U.S.C. 821, the
Power Act does not affect State law water rights. So
State law water rights are taken as a given, and it's up
to the licensee to have the necessary State water
rights, and a FERC license does not in any way alter the
distribution of State law property rights in water.
And what the commission has said in this
case in the final environmental impact statement with
respect to Duke's relicensing application, which is
available on the commission Web site, it cited section
27 and it said: "Any license that is issued will not
impose requirements, including minimum flows, that
infringe on water rights or apportionments." So the
commission is aware of the pendency of this case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it isn't a matter of
infringing on water rights or apportionments. I mean,
that does not exclude, it seems to me, the revocation of
the license or the denial of a renewal of the license
because Duke Power does not have enough water. That
wouldn't preclude that, would it?
MR. MILLER: Well, the -- the nature of this
proceeding makes that outcome not -- not something that
would happen even if South Carolina were to prevail,
because what South Carolina is seeking is to get more
water flowing downstream to it, and so the -- the
licensing conditions, which generally impose minimum
flow requirements at each of the various dams operated
by Duke, would be easier to satisfy, not harder to
satisfy, if South Carolina were -- had an entitlement to
get even more water flowing through --
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't -- I don't
understand that. I don't understand that.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: What happens to North
Carolina if it has less water? What does it do with
respect to Duke?
MR. MILLER: Well, Duke -- Duke's dams ­-
the licensing condition is that each dam allow a certain
amount of water to flow through, under the current
license that they are operating under, and there are
different minimum flow requirements under the renewal
license that is being sought. But an order in effect
requiring that they let more water flow through would
not be in conflict with the licensing requirement, but
--
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, why --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And why isn't Duke
Power -- why isn't Duke Power on the other side, then?
MR. MILLER: I mean, I --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They have smart
lawyers.
MR. MILLER: Well, they -- I mean, one
possibility is, of course, that Duke is -- in addition
to obviously being an operator of dams, Duke is a very
large consumer of water. In fact, it's the largest
consumer of water on the Catawba system because of its
coal and nuclear power plants which use water
evaporatively for cooling of the power plants. So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, it may also mean it
when it has to increase the outflow, the level of its
impoundments reduces, and that may affect its ability to
generate power, which in turn may -- may affect its
license.
MR. MILLER: It -- it may have some effect
on its ability to -- to generate power. But that makes
it a large industrial user of water, akin to those that
the Court referred to in New Jersey v. New York, which
were not entitled to intervene.
I would also point out in further response,
Mr. Chief Justice, to your question, that Duke is a
North Carolina corporation, which may be why it's
seeking to come in on the North Carolina side of this
case.
But I -- I want to return to the idea that
these kinds of cases are not ordinary cases. They
involve sovereign interests, and I think what's
important about that is that the interest --
JUSTICE STEVENS: Mr. Miller, if I -- if I
understood your argument, you are saying that Duke's
interests are really with South Carolina, or -- to
increase the flow. But I would think then it would be
North Carolina who would be objecting to their
participation in the case rather than South Carolina.
And they don't. They -- they welcomed them in, as I
remember the papers.
MR. MILLER: As I said, Duke is an operator
of thermal power plants that are large consumers of
water, and some of those are located in North Carolina.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Bartolomucci.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF H. CHRISTOPHER BARTOLOMUCCI
ON BEHALF OF THE INTERVENORS
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Thank you,
Mr. Chief Justice, and may it please the Court:
The Special Master correctly concluded that
Charlotte, Duke, and the Catawba River Water Supply
Project should intervene in this original action. Her
recommendation deserves some deference because she is in
the best position to know whether these parties would
assist her in the adjudication of this complex dispute.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: This is our original
jurisdiction. I regard the Special Master as more akin
to a law clerk than a district judge. We don't defer to
somebody who's an aide that we have assigned to help us
gather things here. I think on legal questions of
intervention we have to decide de novo.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Our claim is not that the
Special Master should get deference on legal questions,
but she should get deference on -- on the narrow
question of whether it would be helpful to her to have
these intervenors in the case. She has --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But tell me what she
said that makes them helpful. What can they provide
that couldn't be done by merely an amici submission?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, she pointed out,
for example, that Duke Energy, which controls the flow
of this river and is participating in the FERC
proceedings, would establish a -- a direct link between
this adjudication and what's going on before the FERC.
And of course those two proceedings have -- have a lot
of interaction. I think it's also fair to --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, your adversary has
just said none, according to the terms of the license
and what the FERC has said. So why is -- why don't we
just take what FERC has said --
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Oh, I think --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- at face value?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: I think FERC has not said
that there will be no effect, that there would be no
effect upon the licensing proceeding from the original
action. There could be a conflict between the decree
that comes down, if one comes down in this Court, and
the terms of the FERC license.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yes, I think all FERC said
is -- is that nothing in its license would -- would
require allocation of water by -- by North Carolina.
And that's quite different from whether -- whether a
severe reduction in the water that Duke can use would --
would affect the -- the nature of the license given by
FERC.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, Duke of course
pulled together 69 other stakeholders to join the
comprehensive relicensing agreement to -- to smooth
FERC's acceptance of -- of the new license. And this
original action is -- will pit the two Carolinas, each
of which seeks to maximize their share of the river, and
those interests work at odds with the CRA, which
endorses a compromise middle flow position that ­- that
neither of the Carolinas seeks to defend in this action.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, let me tell
you what I'm very worried about. This is our original
jurisdiction, a delicate jurisdiction that allows us to
resolve disputes between sovereign States. And I look
out and I see all sorts of private parties intervening
in a way that would give them party status. And I think
that's compromising what our original jurisdiction is
supposed to be about.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Mr. Chief Justice,
private parties and cities have intervened in the past
in original actions and have been named as defendants in
original actions.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: But even in the New
Jersey v. New York decision, the dissenters there that
would have allowed the intervention did say that in
general it is unwise to encumber original jurisdiction
cases with non-State parties. That was even the
dissenters. So you start out with in general it's not
wise to let these people come in.
And following up on the Chief's question, a
State can't be sued without its consent. And it's true
here that South Carolina is initiating the action, but
it's initiating the action against a sister State. The
Special Master's recommendation would require the State
to have as its direct adversary three parties who are
not a sister State, and that kind of dilutes the notion
of original jurisdiction. It's a controversy between
two States.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, in -- Justice
Ginsburg, in the case of New Jersey v. New York, New
York City was a party defendant, and in this case the
City of Charlotte occupies the exact same position as
New York City.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: That's because the State
chose
to sue it as a party defendant.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: It did, but of course a
State can only sue a proper party defendant. Whether
the question is intervention or whether it's naming a
city as a defendant in an original action, both have to
pass the test of is this city or non-State a proper
party defendant?
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You're -- all of the
intervenors, prospective intervenors, they want to make
sure North Carolina doesn't lose water, right?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: That -- that is not their
exclusive interest.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, their -- well,
they want to reduce South Carolina's claim on the water.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: No. Duke Energy, for
example, doesn't have an interest in maximizing the flow
on the North Carolina side of the river. Duke's -- Duke
Energy's interest is in preserving the -- the flow
compromise reflected in the CRA.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well -- to the
extent they have differing interests, why aren't those
interests fully satisfied by amicus participation?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, when -- when South
Carolina first opposed, for example, Charlotte's motion
to intervene, it said: Oh, Charlotte, you can file an
amicus brief as to any dispositive motion. Well, that
kind of amicus participation is vastly different from
being able to shape the record on which the -- the key
issues in this case are finally decided.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Shape the record,
but intervention status would give you the right to
appeal, right?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: It would allow us to seek
leave to file exceptions to an --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Right, and appeal
the normal case.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Yes.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that's my
question. If we grant intervention in this type of case
and there is no reason it would be three -- I mean, in
the next case, it could be 20 different intervenors, and
they are filing exceptions every other week that we have
to review and adjudicate because they are not bound by
whether or not the State that is on their side wants to
file exceptions.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, let me say two
things, Mr. Chief Justice: If the proposed decree
affects the interests of Charlotte or the joint venture
or Duke, I think they ought to be allowed to file
exceptions, which this Court can grant leave or not.
As to the specter of 20 possible
intervenors --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So how does that get us
to avoid involvement in interstate -- intrastate
disputes over water use? That just drags us right into
your problems among your water users.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, South Carolina and
the United States present this vision of an equitable
apportionment action in which the Special Master simply
divides up the flow of the river, and then it's up to
each State to subdivide among its users.
But that is not what has happened in
equitable apportionment cases. In New Jersey v. New
York, for example, this Court entered a decree, which
enjoined the flow of the Delaware River to New York City
above a specified level. I think 411 cubic feet per
second.
And -- and that is the kind of decree that
South Carolina, I believe, is seeking in this case. If
you look at paragraph 2 of South Carolina's prayer for
relief, they want an injunction against the interbasin
transfers currently being carried -- carried out by
Charlotte and the joint venture. So this --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And North Carolina,
as a sovereign State, can represent the interests of its
constituents as it sees fit.
You and your fellow prospective intervenors
just have to do what citizens do all the time, which is
convince North Carolina, one, and you can help them, to
get as much water as they can; and, two, when they get
it or if they lose it, whatever they are left it, to
give it to you, rather than the other parties.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, as to Duke --
Mr. Chief Justice, I have explained, Duke's interest is
not in maximizing the share -- North Carolina's share of
the river.
The joint venture of the Catawba River Water
Supply Project is not represented by either State
because it's a bi-State entity. Neither -- and both of
the Carolinas is -- are affirmatively hostile to part of
the operations of the joint venture.
When the joint venture --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, then that's ­-
then I just wonder why you are here in an original
action.
What you are saying is they have all sorts
of different interests, and it just -- they get to skip
district court. They get to skip the court of appeals.
They can just come right in here, as if they were a
State, and participate in the case.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, Mr. Chief Justice,
I think this -- this is not a novel proposition. The
City of Port Arthur was allowed to intervene in the case
of Texas v. Louisiana.
Five Indian tribes intervened in Arizona v.
California, and New York City was allowed to be a party
defendant in the New Jersey case, even though the Court
could have dismissed it from the case, as it did to the
Indiana citizens in --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You are advocating a
rule that says, almost, you have a right to intervene
because you have an interest that won't be adequately
represented.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: We --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is that your position?
Then what happens to the Special Master who says, no, I
don't want all you guys here? How do we say that that
master abused his or her discretion by saying no?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: We are saying that the
Special Master got it right, when she said that you have
to show a compelling interest that's not properly
represented by a party State, and she applied the New
Jersey v. New York test, finding, at page 27 of her
report, that neither Charlotte nor the joint venture
are properly represented.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you see the issue
before us as being was she right or wrong, even though
Nevada said -- I'm sorry -- that North Carolina said
that it was going to adequately represent each of these
interests, but that just wasn't correct?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: I think the question
is --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That North Carolina is
not telling us the truth?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: I think the question is,
should the Court accept the Special Master's
recommendation? And I would disagree with South
Carolina, when it says that she applied the wrong legal
test.
She did apply New Jersey v. New York. She
did find that the intervenors were not properly
represented by the party States.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't --
JUSTICE GINSBURG: The intervenors -- the
intervenors are users of the water from the river?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: But not mere users. Their
status is special. Duke, of course, is unique.
It controls the flow of the river, and there's no one
else like Duke on the Catawba.
The other two intervenors are the cause of
the harm for which South Carolina seeks injunctive
relief.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: They -- because they use
a lot of water. And my question is: How do we decide
once we say -- beyond the Special Master can let these
people in with party status -- what users can come in
where, obviously, we are not going to allow all users of
the river water to come in, so which ones can and which
ones can't?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Certainly, our position
is not that mere users of water or all users of water
may intervene in original action.
You have to show a compelling interest
that's not properly represented, and that's going to
depend upon the specific facts of the case.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And is it automatic then?
Is it automatic then? Or is it just that, when that
condition is met, the Special Master can permit the
intervention?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: No, Justice Scalia. I
would say it's not automatic because there are some
other considerations the Special Master can bring to
bear.
For example, timeliness -- you can't show up 20 years
after the litigation has started, like the City of
Philadelphia, and expect to get in. You --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, also, how helpful the
intervention will be to the management of the case.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Correct. Or, conversely,
how --
JUSTICE SCALIA: And, of course, the Special
Master's determination of that is not final. It's
ultimately up to us.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: That's correct.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it is a discretionary
intervention you are arguing for, not a mandatory one.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: It is discretionary, and
if -- if the Special Master believes that -- that this
complex multiyear water rights dispute would be aided by
the presence of a -- of a limited number of intervenors
who have a very special interest in the case, then
that's something that, for institutional --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, what's special
about it? I mean, let's say I own a little farm on
the banks of the Catawba, and I take water out to -- so
the cows have something to drink, why does Charlotte get
a special status just because they take a lot?
I'm affected by how much water runs through
there.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, Charlotte has
special status because South Carolina seeks specific
relief -- injunctive relief -- against Charlotte's
interbasin transfer.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, and that
relief will affect how much water is available for me to
draw out and use on my farm. That's a compelling
interest.
I -- you know, in times of drought, this
water barely trickles by, and, if it's cut back, the
farm is going to go down. It seems to me that, when you
say they have a special interest, you are just saying
they have got a big interest.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: It's not just that it's
-- it's a big interest, and it surely is, but they are
singled out in South Carolina's complaint, and
injunctive relief is sought against them, which, I
think, brings into the play the rule this Court
announced in Kentucky v. Indiana, which is that, if a
plaintiff or plaintiff State in an original action is
seeking relief against a citizen of a State, that
citizen ought to have an opportunity to come into the
litigation and defend its interests.
That's what Charlotte is seeking in this
case. The joint venture, of course, is not represented
by either State fully because both States are hostile to
at least part of what the joint venture does.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, let's say the
interest -- the dispute is really in effect between
company ABC in North Carolina and company XYZ in South
Carolina. I mean, do we -- we would not accept an
original action if they sued each other, right?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: No -- well, of course ­-
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Do we let them just
use the States as, you know, a façade to get into
this Court and have their dispute adjudicated here?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: No. As in Kentucky v.
Indiana, if there are improper parties in original
action, they -- they can be dismissed, but I think it's
noteworthy that the Court allowed the New Jersey
litigation to proceed with New York City as a party
defendant.
And Charlotte's position is truly
indistinguishable from the position of -- of New York
City in that action, with -- with the sole exception
that Charlotte seeks to intervene, whereas New York City
was named as a party defendant.
South Carolina invokes the principle that it
is the master of its complaint, and we would agree with
that, in part. A plaintiff is the master of the
allegations in claims it seeks to make, but a plaintiff
is not a master of the universe of -- of interests that
-- that may be affected by the lawsuit they have -- they
have brought. That's --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Do you think the same --
the same test applies to the appropriateness of naming a
private party defendant, as you would urge for
intervention by a private party defendant?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Yes. I think there would
be a very similar analysis. I think that the question
whether a proposed defendant -- and of course, you need
leave from this Court to file an original action or to
name someone as a defendant in an original action. I
think, in both cases, it raises the question: Is ­- is
this entity a proper party defendant or is the entity a
proper
intervenor?
I think it's a similar analysis.
JUSTICE STEVENS: May I ask this question:
In what respect does the relief sought against the city
differ from the relief sought against the State?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: In this respect, Justice
Stevens: The -- the complaint prays for North Carolina
to stop authorizing the interbasin transfers being
carried out by Charlotte and the joint venture. But --
but Charlotte and the joint venture are the entities
whose primary conduct, if you will, would be affected by
that injunction. They are the parties who are carrying
out the interbasin transfers, and they would have to
stop those transfers if -- if authorization was
withdrawn by North Carolina.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Wouldn't it ­ would
it be surprising if the Special Master recommended that
all the issue that she was going to address was the
relative equitable apportionment between North Carolina
and South Carolina, and even though South Carolina
wanted an injunction directed against the City of
Charlotte, that's up to North Carolina? North Carolina
can divvy up its water however it wants.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: I think it would not be
surprising if she came down -- if she were to come down
with a decree, it would not be surprising that -- that
it would decide whether or not to allow Charlotte's
interbasin transfers to continue.
Because that's -- that was much like what
was decided, for example, in New Jersey v. New York.
There was the proposed diversion of water to New York
City, and the Court there ultimately entered a partial
injunction that banned flows to New York City above a
certain level. So --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, in -- in deciding
what's equitable as between the two States, I guess the
-- the Court, ultimately, and the Special Master,
initially, will have to decide what uses of water by one
State or the other are not equitable uses --
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: And, Justice Scalia --
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- and go beyond what is
reasonable. So I don't see how you could decide the
case without deciding whether especially particularly
massive uses are appropriate or not.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Not just massive.
There's -- it's no accident that South Carolina focuses
upon these interbasin transfers, because they inflict a
special injury, in South Carolina's view.
The interbasin transfers take water out of
the river basin, and -- and so it doesn't come back to
South Carolina within the basin. Other types of uses of
water are non-consumptive, in the sense that the water
can be treated and eventually gets to South Carolina
within that basin.
But South Carolina has targeted these
interbasin transfers because they are entirely,
100 percent consumptive, in the sense that -- that once
the water has left the basin --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Dead losses to South
Carolina.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: -- it does -- it does not
come back.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the percentage,
approximately, of the river that flows into South
Carolina that the three intervenors account for?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: I don't think I have done
that math, Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, about.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Yes. I can tell you that
Charlotte's authorization is -- is 33 million gallons a
day.
JUSTICE BREYER: Out of what? Out of what?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, the flow of the
River -- the minimum flow of the river, under the ­-
under the CRA is 1100 cubic feet per second, so
unfortunately you'd have to -- you'd have to convert from
cfs to --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, I mean, do they
account for, like -- there's a certain amount of water
in dispute. There are some people who want to
intervene. Are the people who intervene -- do they
account more like 1 percent of all the water that's in
dispute, or do they account for more like 50 percent?
That seems like a pretty relevant question
to me.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, I -- it's a
significant proportion.
JUSTICE BREYER: You must have some idea.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: It's a significant
proportion. It's not --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, significant ­ is
that more like 3 percent, or is it more like 90 percent?
I mean, nobody has ever bothered to look at that in this
whole case?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, I haven't done that
calculation. I will say that they are significant
enough that South Carolina seeks a specific injunction
against those interbasin transfers.
JUSTICE SCALIA: And I guess it depends on
what you mean by the water in dispute. If the main
gravamen of the complaint is interbasin transfers, they
-- they occupy a huge proportion of that.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: And as the Special Master
read it, IBTs are --
JUSTICE BREYER: Oh, that's -- I agree.
That's a good point, but -- so what percentage if ­-
what percentage of the interbasin transfers do they
account for?
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Well, they represent,
actually, 100 percent of the interbasin transfers --
JUSTICE BREYER: Okay.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: -- being carried out.
JUSTICE BREYER: So insofar -- so insofar as
what they are after is interbasin transfers, just what
Justice Scalia said is correct. These are the
interbasin transfer people.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: These are the -- the IBTs
at issue.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's helpful.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, Counsel.
MR. BARTOLOMUCCI: Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Browning.
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHRISTOPHER G. BROWNING, JR.
ON BEHALF OF THE DEFENDANT
MR. BROWNING: Mr. Chief Justice, and may it
please the Court:
Let me turn to two questions that Justice
Scalia asked Mr. Frederick, but I think his response
needs clarification from North Carolina's perspective.
The first question dealt with Maryland v.
Louisiana, and Mr. Frederick responded that that case,
in which 17 pipeline companies were permitted to
intervene -- according to Mr. Frederick, the States in
that case did not serve as parens patriae with regard to
those 17 pipeline companies. That is factually
incorrect. In that case, two of those pipeline
companies -- the Michigan-Wisconsin Pipeline Company was
a resident of the State of Michigan, one of the
complaining States in that case, as well as the National
Gas Pipeline Company of America was an Illinois
corporation.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Maryland v.
Louisiana involved a specific tax on specific companies,
and they were allowed to intervene. This is not that.
This is a question of how the equitable apportionment of
the water is going to be, and North Carolina can do with
the water whatever it will.
It strikes me as very different than
Maryland v. Louisiana.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, in Maryland v.
Louisiana, that was a taxation case, a case that goes to
a fundamental interest of the States, the power of
taxation.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Did -- did the decree only
apply to taxing these particular companies? Could the
-- could the State have taxed other companies after the
decree issued?
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor, as the
Plaintiff States were seeking to attack the Louisiana
tax at issue. So it would have general applicability.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: As -- as the
allocation would in this case, presumably.
MR. BROWNING: Well, I don't -- and that
question --
JUSTICE SCALIA: Is that yes or no? I --
you say yes, it would have general applicability.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor. Yes,
Justice Scalia.
Your Honor, South Carolina has said that
this case is about consumption of water in toto. But
when you look at their bill of complaint, that is simply
not the case. When you look at the question presented
in their leave for -- their motion for leave to file a
bill of complaint, it starts out whether North
Carolina's interbasin transfer statute is invalid under
the Supremacy Clause of the United States Constitution.
And when you look at the allegations in the bill of
complaint, it is specifically focused on interbasin
transfers. It asserts that they are inequitable, and it
is seeking injunctive relief with respect to those
interbasin transfers. We --
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, how is just this
involved? Is there -- because I am amazed that this is
now coming to me for the first time. All this case is
about is interbasin transfers and that you account for
100 percent of them, you three. Is that -- is that
right? Because I suspect in, like, 5 minutes, somebody
might tell me it's not right.
(Laughter.)
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, there are --
there are very few interbasin transfers.
JUSTICE BREYER: I -- that's not my
question.
MR. BROWNING: Yes. Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: I want -- I'm trying ­-
look, if Alaska sued California and the complaint was we
want San Francisco back, San Francisco might have a
right to intervene. But if it was about California
generally, maybe they wouldn't.
So what I want to know is, what's the water
that is at issue in this complaint and how much of the
water that is at issue in this complaint do the three
intervenors account for? That seems like a fairly
simple empirical question.
MR. BROWNING: Yes.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's what I'm trying to
get the answer to.
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor. The -- the
two intervenors that have interbasin transfers account
for the vast majority of the water that is consumed as a
result of an interbasin transfer.
In the 2006 study that was done by Duke
Energy, the largest interbasin transfer is the City of
Charlotte at 9 million gallons per day. The second --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, my basic
concern is that -- and I will let you finish if there is
more to the answer. I'm sorry.
Private parties are going to hijack our
original jurisdiction, and it was highlighted for me
when I read your motion, the motion of private parties
for divided argument. Your proposal was that they be
divided 10, 10, and 10. You didn't even want to be
here.
As they view the case and as you view the
case, it's got so little to do with the State that the
State didn't even want to come here and argue the case.
MR. BROWNING: Well, Your Honor, that was an
accommodation from the State of North Carolina with
respect to the intervenors.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You thought their
participation here before this Court on a question in
original jurisdiction was more important than yours, and
you represent the State.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, the intervention
motion directly affects each of these intervenors, and
they have a right to be heard with respect to that
intervention motion.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Why can't you
represent them?
MR. BROWNING: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: They are your
constituents. You are the State. You are coming here
directly, not even going to district court, and you seem
to be ceding your sovereignty over to them.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, we do not believe
that we are ceding our sovereignty. With respect to
Duke Energy and the Catawba River Water Supply Project,
North Carolina does not and cannot adequately represent
their interests with respect to Duke Energy.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why?
MR. BROWNING: Okay, with respect to Duke
Energy: Duke is -- has 11 dams in North and South
Carolina. As a result of those dams, Duke Energy
controls the flow of the river into South Carolina. As
--
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But you are going to
defend all of their interests as it affects North
Carolina, right? You are not incapable of protecting
their North Carolina interests.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, their
interests are inseparable, specifically with regard to
Duke Energy.
Duke negotiated, over a period of several
years, a comprehensive relicensing agreement, with
various agencies of North Carolina, various agencies of
South Carolina, and stakeholders up and down this river.
As a result of that negotiated agreement,
there was -- the CRA was put in place, which is
essentially a request that FERC issue a license in
accordance with the provisions of that agreement.
That agreement would set a minimum flow of
water into South Carolina that is much, much higher than
the previous license. Now, South Carolina has come into
Court and has attacked that agreement.
Duke has a very real and substantial
interest with respect to that agreement. But --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: What is -- what's
the interest of North Carolina?
MR. BROWNING: Well --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You are standing
there telling me why Duke has an interest. What's North
Carolina's interest?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, North Carolina
will defend these interbasin transfers, but with respect
to Duke Energy, we are not aligned with Duke Energy
because Duke has a very real interest in preserving --
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So oppose their
intervention.
MR. BROWNING: Well, we believe that they
have a right to be heard because of their compelling
interests that are affected in this case.
South Carolina is seeking to change the CRA,
to have a flow of water that is much higher than is set
out in the CRA. Although North Carolina supports --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Isn't it your interest
to -- to resist that?
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor. Not only
are we resisting that --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And your interest is
to defend the CRA, right?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, North Carolina
will resist having South Carolina have a greater flow
of water than --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You haven't answered my
question.
MR. BROWNING: I'm sorry.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is it in your interest
not to support the CRA?
MR. BROWNING: Yes, Your Honor. It is in
our interest because even --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You would like -- you
would like, in this litigation against the two States,
for the Special Master to undo the -- your obligations
under the CRA?
MR. BROWNING: That will, ultimately, be our
request in this case because South Carolina has attacked
that agreement.
From North Carolina's perspective, South
Carolina is receiving much more water under this
negotiated agreement than they could ever hope to
achieve in an equitable apportionment action.
So at the end of the day, we will be asking
this Court to issue a decree that sets a flow of
water less than --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you are prepared to
tell us right now -- this is what you are saying to us:
We will not represent the interest of Duke?
MR. BROWNING: We will not represent the
interest of Duke, given their --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you prepared to say
the same thing with respect to your city?
MR. BROWNING: With respect --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And to your -- and to
the CRWSP?
MR. BROWNING: With respect to the city, we
have said in our briefs that we will defend this
interbasin transfer. We believe that we will represent
the City of Charlotte with respect to that regard, but
we also support their intervention motions because we do
not believe that it would result in them impeaching the
interests of North Carolina.
And more importantly, the Special Master got
it right, that there is -- this is a specific attack on
the City of Charlotte and its unique interests. It is
seeking injunctive relief that will cripple the largest
city in North and South Carolina.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, if it's an
attack on -- if it's an attack on Charlotte, I would
expect the State to be standing there protecting it and
not feel that they can't do that without Charlotte,
itself, coming into the case.
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, we will defend
this interbasin transfer, but the fact of the matter is
injunctive relief is sought as against Charlotte, and
there is something to be said for fairness in allowing
that entity to be present in this Court.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you --
MR. BROWNING: Now, turning --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you prepared to say
that you are not adequately defending the interest of
the CRWSP?
MR. BROWNING: Correct, Your Honor, that
that is an interstate entity. It -- its interests have
been expressly attacked, the interbasin transfer. South
Carolina singles it out in the bill of complaint.
What's more important --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: You haven't answered my
question. You said, with Duke, that you won't support
--
MR. BROWNING: Yes. We --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- them. Are you not
going to support this -- the joint venture in property?
MR. BROWNING: We -- we cannot represent the
interests of the joint venture. They have an interbasin
transfer, pursuant to the North Carolina statute for
Union County.
But what the complaint doesn't disclose is
that the other half of that joint venture also has an
interbasin transfer with respect to Lancaster County,
South Carolina.
So South Carolina can hardly attack the
Union County interbasin transfer while simultaneously
defending the Lancaster County, South Carolina,
interbasin transfer.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Let's go back to the
question of couldn't the Special Master receive the
information she wants if these three entities come in as
amici?
Coming in as intervenors, they have full
party status. They can engage in discovery. They can
protract the case. They can appeal any adverse
judgment.
Why isn't the most reasonable accommodation
to say, well, we will listen to you, but we are not
going to give you full party status?
MR. BROWNING: Your Honor, if that were
the -- the standard, there would never be intervention
motions in any of these proceedings.
The fact of the matter is that these
entities have unique interests, and with respect to two
of those interests -- Duke Energy and the Catawba River
Water Supply Project -- their interests are not
represented by either State.
All three of them have been expressly
attacked in the complaint, and fairness dictates they
should have an opportunity to be heard.
Thank you.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
Mr. Frederick, you have 2 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF DAVID C. FREDERICK
ON BEHALF OF THE PLAINTIFF
MR. FREDERICK: I have four points,
Mr. Chief Justice. First --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Tell me, are you seeking
injunctive relief out of any of the three intervenors?
MR. FREDERICK: No. We seek an injunction
enjoining the interbasin transfer statute to the extent
it exceeds North Carolina's equitable apportionment. We
are here to get our fair share of the river vis-à-vis
North Carolina.
And Duke's CRA application expressly
disclaims any -- any ability to go into the interbasin
transfer. That's at page 20, footnote 14, of our motion
for leave to file exceptions.
The FERC has said it will not affect, in
giving its license, the equitable apportionment action
now pending before you.
In Duke's CRA, at paragraph 39.9, it says it
does not affect State water uses. So the only issue
here is whether or not those expressed disclaimers
should be given effect when South Carolina is simply
seeking to determine, as between the two States, the
rights.
JUSTICE SCALIA: But it affects the
agreement on which the license is based. The license
was based upon a very hard negotiated agreement among a
number of entities.
MR. FREDERICK: The license hasn't been
issued, Justice Scalia. It's still pending.
And that's what FERC has before it, and FERC
has said that the CRA will not affect what license is
issued, but I want to go back to a fundamental --
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Are you willing to
concede that if whatever you ask for here affects that
license, once its issued, that then Duke's
intervention is proper?
MR. FREDERICK: No, because the United
States can enter -- can affect the interests and
represent the interests of its licensees.
Duke's interest is completely derivative of
the United States' power to confer a license on an
energy producer. And the United States here is saying,
no, they should not be allowed to intervene.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I thought Duke said the
problem is not the United States -- so much the United
States granting a license. It's the license we
requested was based upon a negotiated agreement among a
number of entities, and that agreement goes out the
window once -- on the basis of this lawsuit.
MR. FREDERICK: The agreement is a private
contract among various water users, and it is no
different than the fact that all users of this river
will be affected, one way or the other, by whatever
decree this Court issues, whether they are on the South
Carolina side or the North Carolina side.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 2:02 p.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
15:19 34:20 allocations 9:18 47:8,14 49:19 57:8
59:17 adjudicate 32:1 13:24 21:12 57:19 Article 11:19
adjudication allowed 4:5 5:20 applies 40:13 asked 46:1
56:16 adversary 27:21 34:11,14 39:22 applying 11:16 assigned 27:3
43:13 advocating 55:3 10:16 assuming 16:6
45:6 34:18 allows 15:18 29:1 apportionment assumption
49:1,7 affect 16:16,25 alter 23:5 3:12 4:12 5:10 16:15,20
38:13 57:23 amici 27:13 17:9,11 18:1,17 attacked 51:22
13:14 affirmatively amicus 1:19 2:6 20:23 21:13 57:3
33:23 12:16 17:18 32:17,21 41:17 attempt 7:8
7:9 agencies 51:13 31:10 57:16,24 authorization
12:16 51:13 amount 9:4 apportionments 41:12 43:18
agree 40:6 45:3 14:12 24:13 23:13,16 authorizing 41:6
agreed 4:15 44:2 approach 3:24 automatic 36:24
22:4,4 agreement 16:17 analysis 40:17 11:1 36:25 37:4
28:5,19 16:21 17:4,5 40:25 appropriate 4:8 available 23:10
29:20,21 28:17 51:12,15 analyze 13:17 4:18 5:3,4 38:13
32:17 51:18,19,22,24 ancillary 16:23 11:15 18:6 avoid 32:12
36:20 39:2 53:15,18 58:8,9 announced 39:1 20:11 22:9,11 aware 23:14
40:2 59:5,6,8 answer 14:3 42:17
53:19
apart 5:13 40:13 42:23 43:10
15:6
21:13,15
34:6 argue 5:8 49:24 banks 38:3
2:8 26:14 bi-State 33:22 3:5,5,11,12 19:6,13,19 20:1 41:8,20 49:12
27:6 blue 12:9 5:16 7:22,22,25 20:13,18 21:3,9 54:11,17,21,23
28:2 bothered 44:16 8:2,4,7,9,12,16 22:9 23:8,14 55:2
29:7 30:2 bound 32:1 9:21 10:7,10 25:22 26:7 Charlotte's
boundaries 3:14 16:9,10,12 27:10 30:3,4 10:14 31:7
32:4 boundary 7:25 23:23,24 24:4,9 31:12,19,22,24 38:10 39:25
33:16 8:10 25:20,21 26:4,6 33:2 34:8,11,15 41:25 43:18
35:2,14 breach 7:10 26:7,12 28:10 34:16 36:23 Chief 3:3,10 4:14
36:4,18 Breyer 43:11,15 29:20 30:18,25 37:11,24 39:7 7:12,19 14:2
43:16,20 44:1 31:7 32:15 33:2 42:16 44:17 17:13,20 24:21
39:15 44:11,14 45:3,9 33:7,12 35:11 46:4,7,9,12,24 24:24 25:19
40:16 45:11,17 48:5 35:16,21 36:9 46:24 47:10,18 26:13,18,25
42:13 48:15,18 49:4 38:9 39:12,13 47:20 48:7 28:24 29:7
43:9,14 bridge 7:11 40:5 41:5,13,17 49:22,23,24 30:16,21 31:3
44:9 brief 12:9 17:6 41:18,18,20,20 52:14 53:14 31:13,18,21
45:1,7 31:9 42:19,24 43:1,3 54:24 56:14 32:5 33:7,17
briefs 54:9 43:8,13 44:20 59:15,16 34:1,9 36:1
brings 22:3 50:1,21 51:1,2 10:1,1,25 11:14 39:16 41:14
43:2,6 40:11 52:17,24,25 32:21 40:21 49:13 50:3,11
22:12 2:10 45:20,21 54:19 55:13,23 5:15 7:14 8:8 52:3,10 54:20
45:23 46:23 56:3,4,6 57:18 9:5 10:17 16:11 57:6,11 59:14
2:4,6,9,11 50:18,24 51:8 Carolina's 22:16 category 7:15 1:21,23 2:8,10
3:8,13 52:2,6,12,20,24 22:17,17,20 cause 36:8 26:15 45:21
8:11 13:15 53:4,7,13 54:1 30:22 33:3,18 ceding 50:17,19 circumstances
26:16 54:5,8,25 55:6 38:23 42:21 certain 24:12 13:18
57:9 55:10,18,21 46:2 47:23 52:5 42:7 44:2 cite 6:20
52:12 build 7:10 carried 33:5,5 cfs 43:25 23:10
41:7 45:10 challenge 6:17 cities 29:8
calculation 44:19 6:7,18,21 7:1,2 Charlotte 3:17 citizens 7:9
called 6:16 11:25 12:4,6,14 19:1 26:20 30:5 city 30:4,5,6,13
19:18 13:16,19 14:1 35:7 38:4,8 34:11,14 37:8
40:2,3 complaint 8:25 43:5 19:18,19 20:14 de 11:7,12 19:17
42:5,6 9:2 22:5,6,7,12 continue 42:1 20:21 21:16,16 27:5
54:4,8,11 22:15,16 38:23 contours 15:11 21:19 22:7 Dead 43:7
40:6 41:5 44:24 contract 7:10 25:16 26:18 dealing 10:22
30:22 55:13,25 57:3 controls 27:15 38:25 39:18,22 10:17 13:23
complex 26:24 controversy 45:24 50:4,16 36:12 41:25
47:24 51:12 convince 33:12 Court's 4:7 10:1 decides 9:15
29:5 correct 11:11 cover 21:25 decision 9:10
25:21 concern 20:18 45:13 55:10 CRA 17:7,10 13:22 29:12
34:7 49:14 correctly 26:19 28:21 31:2 declaratory 6:10
39:4 concluded 26:19 counsel 14:10 43:23 51:16 decree 28:5 32:5
42:23 condition 24:12 26:13 28:24 52:15,17,23 32:22 33:1
49:24 37:1 45:18 49:13 53:6,12 57:19 41:24 47:2,5
56:10 conditions 24:1 57:6 59:14 58:1,14 53:21 59:12
54:24 conflict 24:18 County 7:22 8:3 55:9 28:23 39:5 51:5
28:5 8:4,12 55:24 cubic 32:24 52:7,23 54:9,25
considerations County's 8:3 curiae 1:19 2:7 2:11 30:4,9,11
considered 6:16 20:22 25:2 current 24:13 39:24 40:4,14
6:9,14 7:14 33:9 50:15 30:10 36:5 33:5 45:22
constituted 19:6 37:14 39:7,15 cut 9:21 38:17 defendants
Constitution 40:18 22:20 29:9
47:24 court 1:1,12 3:10 D defending 55:8
46:10,13 6:10 6:7,9,11,15,19 17:16 defer 11:2 27:2
17:24 35:4 consumers 10:16 11:1,7,13 25:3 50:25 51:1 26:22 27:7,8
38:14 26:11 12:6,7 13:7,12 DAVID 1:15 2:3 Delaware 32:23
consumption 8:3 15:2,3,12,18 2:13 3:7 57:8 delegated 15:6
consumptive 18:20 19:14,17 49:12 53:20 29:1
dismissed 34:16 55:16 56:24 59:6 21:24
dispute 8:20,21 24:11 26:3 entity 10:5,11 22:9
19:21 29:2 32:13 equitable 3:11 expressed 58:3
37:15 dissenters 29:12 E 4:12 5:10,25 expressly 55:12
11:10 distill 4:6 easier 24:3 16:3,11 17:10 extent 9:3 20:4,9
58:5 distilled 4:21 effect 8:12 24:16 18:1,17,20 20:17 31:4
8:15 14:18 divine 10:6 either 5:5 14:22 ERIC 1:17 2:5 12:9 13:19 15:4
24:15 divvy 41:21 21:8 33:21 39:8 17:16 15:8 25:4 55:1
31:10,24 docket 3:5 13:7 57:1 especially 42:16 56:22 59:10
46:21 doing 15:17 Electric 12:15,19 ESQ 1:15,17,21 factors 4:3,21
Dokes 20:6 empirical 49:2 2:3,5,8,10,13 13:17
downstream energy 22:24 establish 27:17 19:21
29:23 drink 38:4 52:8,8 56:24 eventually 43:1 fairness 55:3
50:8,16 22:24 23:19 engage 56:13 example 12:13 façade 39:17
56:13 49:10 50:20,22 43:4 31:25 32:3,8 FERC 6:11
51:10,11,23 8:18 9:8,11,24 exclude 23:17 22:24 23:5
forget 12:1 generate 25:11 handling 6:17 impact 4:12 9:11
forgot 14:7 25:14 happen 5:17 17:8,10 23:8
57:23 form 16:8,9 Ginsburg 10:19 23:23 impeaching
fortiori 19:21 11:6 12:21 13:8 happened 32:20 54:13
32:3,7 Francisco 48:20 Ginsburg's 14:3 hard 5:8 58:9 21:21
47:21 48:20 give 10:22 11:3 harder 24:3 important 16:5
Frederick 1:15 14:12 29:4 harm 36:9 20:19 26:1 50:5
9:2,12,14,25 28:13 54:2 58:4 hear 3:3 impose 23:12
31:12 12:2,5,21 13:5 giving 57:24 52:13 57:4 impoundments
46:1,4,6 57:7,8 57:20 58:15 helpful 27:9,12 inadequate 5:4
11:6,10 full 20:16 56:12 14:12 19:2 21:6 highlight 12:9 incapable 51:6
31:7 46:3 56:18 27:18 35:12 highlighted including 23:12
57:11 fully 31:5 39:8 36:15,22 38:18 49:17 inconsistent
26:5 fundamentally 56:18 22:25 46:23 increase 25:9
28:22 7:21 11:18 good 45:4 47:6,15,17 26:5
31:1 15:10 govern 4:23 48:13 49:6,25 independent
36:6 fungible 10:4 grant 13:1 31:22 50:7,18 51:8 19:20 21:21
51:2 further 25:18 32:8 52:6,20,24 53:7 Indian 34:13
52:16,25 granting 59:4 54:25 55:10 Indiana 7:7,8
G gravamen 44:24 56:19 34:17 39:1,20
45:21 greater 52:25 hostile 33:23 indistinguisha...
43:18 49:12 42:9 44:22 huge 44:25 individual 4:13
general 1:18,23 guys 34:25 IBTs 45:2,15 inequitable 48:2
57:21 48:22 half 56:1 imbue 15:5 infringe 23:13
32:6 33:8 34:5 19:22 20:16 join 7:8 28:16 34:1,9,18,23
41:10,19 50:22 51:5,7,9 30:12 31:14,22 33:6,20,24,25 36:11,24 37:3
44:20 52:14 54:14,17 37:2,11,19 35:7 39:7,9 37:10,14,18
55:11,22 56:23 40:15 50:7,10 41:7,8 55:20,22 38:1,12 39:10
48:3 58:22 56:20 58:19 JR 1:23 2:10 41:1,4,14 42:8
55:2 interstate 7:11 intramural 3:25 45:21 42:13,14 43:7
13:10 17:9 18:5 intrastate 9:18 judge 27:2 43:11,15,16,20
12:17 13:2 involve 25:25 21:17 56:15 47:16 48:5,15
9:3,9,23 26:21 31:8 involvement jurisdiction 51:4,25 52:3,10
38:11 41:6 34:11,19 36:20 32:12 10:25 11:19 52:18,22 53:2,5
42:1,20 40:3 44:4,4 involves 3:24 14:23,25 15:1 53:9,23 54:3,6
43:4 46:6,17 48:21 involving 5:19 15:12 19:19 54:20 55:5,7,15
45:5,8 59:1 13:9,20 21:19 22:10 55:19 56:8 57:6
47:23 intervened 29:8 issue 6:12 35:9 27:1 29:1,1,5 57:11,12 58:7
34:13 41:16 45:16 29:14,25 49:17 58:12,16 59:2
52:7 intervening 29:3 47:8 48:24,25 50:5 59:14
55:1,12 intervenor 4:4 51:17 53:21 Justice 1:18 3:3
56:2,5,7 5:3 40:24 58:2 3:10 4:14 5:18 K
intervenors 1:22 issued 23:11 6:2,23 7:12,19 keep 20:19
15:14 20:21 21:10 58:18 9:19 10:18,19 16:14,19 17:2
18:2,3,4 22:17 26:16 issues 17:9 21:20 11:6,20,24,25 Kentucky 7:7
27:10 30:17,17 21:20 31:12 12:3,21 13:8 39:1,19
26:1 31:24 32:10 59:12 14:2,3,8,10 Kentucky's 7:8
31:1 33:10 35:24 it's 21:19 38:21 15:24 16:13,14 key 31:11
34:20 36:2,3,8 37:23 38:22 44:12 16:19 17:2,13 kind 29:24 31:10
36:21 43:13 49:1,7 I'm 48:18 17:20 18:8,23 33:1
38:15,19 50:2,8 56:12 19:8,12,23 20:5 kinds 25:24
39:11 57:13 J 21:2,23 22:15 know 14:10 20:6
51:24 intervenor's 4:9 Jersey 3:22 4:15 22:22 23:15 26:23 38:16
4:24 4:20,22 5:1,12 24:6,8,20,21,24 39:17 48:23
53:5,8,25 intervenor's 5:6 6:20,21 13:17 25:8,19 26:2,13
25:16 L
55:8 58:23 intervention 26:18,25 27:11
30:3 Lancaster 7:23
37:8 39:5,23 27:1,7 32:17 million 8:13 4:15,20,20,22
26:11 little 12:22 38:2 36:13 37:1,5,21 mind 20:19 6:20,21,21
54:18 logical 21:11 53:11 54:15 43:22 51:19 28:18 29:11,12
15:9 47:19,20,25 12:9 14:13 21:4 molecules 10:4 34:14,15 35:5,6
23:2,3,6 48:19 master's 3:16 motion 12:7 13:1 35:23,23 39:22
looking 12:24 11:4,21 12:23 31:7,9 47:21 39:23 40:1,3
losses 43:7 37:15 50:10 57:21 nine 15:4
47:21,21 Louisiana 6:8,9 matter 1:11 9:23 multiple 13:21 non-State 20:25
6:12 12:2,24 15:3 21:12 multiyear 37:22 22:13 29:15
27:4,7 47:7 maximize 28:20 N 2:1,1 3:1 18:25 31:19
luck 9:24 maximizing name 12:1 40:20 north 1:6 3:5,12
56:8 M mean 18:9 19:4 naming 30:12 8:2,4,6,12,15
42:7 majority 19:6 24:23 25:1,8 narrow 27:8 16:10,12 22:17
22:24 making 6:24 39:13 44:1,16 nature 23:21 25:20,21 26:6
15:8 22:11 44:23 28:13 26:12 28:10
25:12 management measure 10:22 Nebraska 12:14 30:18,25 33:7
28:7,9,13 20:18 37:11 11:3 Nebraska's 33:12,18 35:11
51:17,21 mandatory mentioned 12:1 12:18 35:16 39:12
58:8,8,11 37:19 mere 36:4,19 necessarily 9:11 41:5,13,17,20
Maryland 6:7,12 merely 27:13 10:12,17 41:20 46:2,19
12:2,24 13:12 met 5:11 37:1 necessary 23:4 47:22 50:1,21
28:4 42:18 46:10 51:15 53:18 55:23 57:16,18
22:13 21:3,9 26:19 25:1,13 26:2,10 new 3:21,22 4:15 nuclear 25:6
59:6 original 3:4,19 parties 3:18 5:4 19:5,7,9 37:9 37:23
13:4 20:12,16,25 pipeline 6:9,14 presented 47:20
28:19,25 29:5,9 party 4:4,5 14:14 plaintiff 1:4,16 pretty 44:7
36:15 36:20 39:2,14 30:9,11,15 39:2 40:7,8 primary 41:9
outflow 25:9 patriae 3:13 6:13 please 3:10 17:21 4:23,24
59:7 P 3:1 57:25 58:12 political 10:11 problem 59:3
17:6 35:6 57:21 36:14 44:3,4 position 22:23 proceed 22:11
part 4:17 7:22 43:11 45:4,5 possible 32:9 27:17,19 56:21
14:8 39:9 40:7 permission 22:6 potential 14:17 project 3:18 5:15
participate 5:6 10:21 23:2,19 24:22 16:12 26:21
26:15 participation 3:23 6:7 7:24 practical 9:23 40:22,23 58:19
20:11 26:7 31:5 46:5 prayer 33:3 properly 17:25
particular 18:4 perspective preclude 23:20 36:22
25:24 particularly 53:16 54:3 55:7 18:3,15 23:6
45:25 reduces 25:10 require 14:13 48:21 50:9 51:6
15:16 referred 25:16 requirement 54:16
42:4 51:9 54:11 23:12 24:2,15 23:13,16 37:22
R 3:1 rejected 7:2,8 reserved 21:20 ring 19:3
33:10 raising 6:12 relative 41:17 resident 19:1 river 3:12,14,17
rare 12:10 16:17 23:9 resisting 52:21 26:20 27:16
49:18 relied 13:12 resolved 21:22 32:18,23 33:19
realistically 36:10 38:10,10 11:15 23:9 43:22 50:20
reason 7:11 18:5 remember 26:9 54:11 56:2,23 17:13 24:21,24
reasons 3:15 report's 3:24 responsibilities 38:1,12 39:10
15:20 represent 7:13 21:18 39:16 41:14
14:4,11 receiving 53:17 58:22 51:1,15 54:13 57:6 59:14
15:9 recommendati... representation return 25:23 routine 21:12
25:19 3:16 12:6,23 5:5 review 11:6,7,12 routinely 12:10
29:18 14:4 15:21 21:9 represented 22:7 32:1 rule 10:21,22
31:22 26:22 29:22 13:11,25 18:1,9 reviewed 15:21 20:19,20 34:19
36:12 35:20 33:21 34:21 19:17 38:25
41:1 recommendati... 35:5,8,25 36:22 revocation 23:17 rules 6:24 10:24
46:3,18 19:16,17 39:7 57:1 right 6:24 18:12 ruling 11:17
48:16 recommended representing 20:3 22:5,21 runs 38:6
50:4 53:3 7:3 12:4,25 22:22 30:18 31:14,15
56:9 20:19 41:15 request 5:6 31:18 32:13 S
27:4,7 reduce 30:22 requested 59:5 39:14 48:10,11 San 48:20,20
26:3 34:4 36:9 38:9 40:3 14:18 59:12 starts 47:22
38:19 40:8 44:20 situations 10:2 sovereign 6:6 State 4:1 5:5,20
58:25 sees 33:9 13:9 15:15,16 18:3 5:20 6:9 7:13
34:19,24 43:5 small 18:25 sovereigns 21:17 9:17 10:6 12:18
58:1 sentences 6:20 smart 24:24 sovereignty 13:11,11,20
8:17,24 series 10:4 sole 40:2 sparingly 21:19 16:1,1,5,7
10:18 serious 21:20 Solicitor 1:17,23 special 3:16 4:2,6 17:23 18:1,4,10
serve 46:7 somebody 27:3 4:19 7:3 11:4 18:10,15,19
15:24 set 51:19 52:16 48:10 11:15,17,21 19:7 21:24,24
18:8,23 sets 53:21 sorry 35:11 12:3,6,9,11,17 21:25 22:1,1,2
20:5 settled 21:1 49:15 53:4 12:23 14:5,13 22:3 23:2,3,4,6
23:15 severe 28:12 sorts 29:3 34:4 14:15 15:2,4,21 29:19,21,22,24
25:8 shape 31:11,13 SOTOMAYOR 15:23 19:8,10 30:7,11 32:2,19
36:24 37:3 share 9:15 10:9 14:10 24:8 19:15 20:12,14 33:8,21 34:8
10:14 18:4,18 27:11,21 28:1 20:20 21:3,4,9 35:5 39:2,3,8
42:8,13 18:22 28:20 32:11 34:18,23 26:19 27:1,7 41:3 42:12
43:7 33:18,18 57:17 35:9,16 50:23 29:22 32:17 46:11 47:4
45:13 show 17:24 35:4 51:4 52:18,22 34:24 35:3,19 49:23,24 50:1,6
47:2,13,16 36:21 37:7 53:2,5,9,23 36:5,13 37:1,5 50:15 54:22
59:2 side 7:25 8:2,9 54:3,6 55:5,7 37:14,21,24 57:1 58:2
43:23 significant 44:10 38:24 41:2,3 specific 4:12 7:16,17 10:3
44:12,14,19 55:2 36:23 38:9 13:14,25 14:17
simple 49:2 South 1:3 3:5,11 54:16 21:21 22:23
18:16 22:5 22:16 23:23,24 51:9 35:25 39:8,17
42:15 58:4 29:20 30:22 specter 32:9 47:7,24 53:10
56:5 33:3 35:20 36:9 18:17 59:3,4
12:19 singles 55:13 40:5 41:18,18 28:16 51:14 status 4:9,24 5:3
17:3 22:19 sister 29:21,24 42:19,21,24 standard 3:22 29:4 31:14 36:5
25:21 sit 15:2 43:1,3,7,12 4:15,19 5:1,11 36:14 38:5,9
39:3,6 site 23:10 44:20 47:17 5:13 11:12,17 56:13,18
48:3 52:15 sits 15:3 50:25 51:2,14 56:20 statute 47:23
57:15 surely 38:22 thing 18:18 54:4 treated 7:17 43:1 unusual 13:3,6
suspect 48:10 7:16 12:22 14:9 tribes 34:13 urging 20:21
T 19:9 20:18 21:6 truly 5:8 39:25 38:14 39:17
20:13 taken 9:4 23:3 39:21 40:12,16 turning 55:6 5:16 8:6,16
talking 9:20 40:17,21,25 two 6:19 10:3 10:11 13:10,15
19:1 46:1 27:19 28:19 19:7 21:13
7:19 8:11 targeted 43:3 third-party 36:8 42:9 45:25 36:14,15,19,19
11:10 13:18 tax 5:19,21 6:10 20:10 46:9 49:7 53:10 59:9,10
taxation 46:24 50:3 59:2 type 31:22 42:24 58:2
taxed 47:4 4:24 5:10 8:18
48:19 43:17 48:11 48:9,25 56:10 42:5,10 53:13 6:21,21 7:7
26:20 test 3:21 11:8,9 times 38:16 undo 53:11 32:21 34:12,13
50:20 11:11 30:14 toto 8:22 47:18 unfortunately 35:6,23 39:1,19
35:6,22 40:13 transfer 8:22 43:24 42:3 46:3,15,22
55:16,20 Thank 3:9 17:13 47:23 49:9,11 8:4,12 55:24 valuable 20:9
17:19 45:19 57:5,6 55:23 56:2,5,7 unique 6:5 36:5 various 6:14
40:11 44:5 41:6,11,12 42:1 32:16 47:24 vastly 31:10
there's 21:11 44:21,24 45:5,8 59:3,3 32:6 33:6,20,24
56:1 42:25 43:6 44:2 York 3:22 4:15 39.9 58:1
46:20 47:18 6:21 13:17 19:5 4
8:13 48:10
58:2 59:9 40:1,3 42:3,4,6
44:6
17:6
17:6
22:11 23:5
59:11
33:4 Web 23:10 1:00 1:13 3:2
28:16
44:3 week 31:25 10 12:15 49:20
welcomed 26:8 49:20,20 7
58:15 we've 11:20 100 43:5 45:8 745 12:24
What's 52:4 11 50:25 8
56:10 window 59:7 13 1:9
14 57:21 9 49:12
5:15,16 work 28:21 46:8
7:14,23 world 9:20,25 1920s 13:7
8:1,1,5,6 worried 28:25 1930 7:7
wouldn't 23:20 1932 13:8
10:3 48:22
14:16 Wouldn't 41:14 2
15:16,19 would-be 20:20 2 33:3 57:7
18:3,6,16 2:02 59:16
19:7 20 31:24 32:9
23:2,3,4 37:7 57:21
11:9 35:10
200 6:4
24:5,9,13 Wyoming 12:14 2006 49:10
25:4,5,6 2009 1:9
26:12,20 21 12:25 14:7
30:18 X 26 2:9
32:13,14 x 1:2,7 27 23:1,11 35:6
36:3 XYZ 39:12
38:3,6,13
41:21
51:12 39 17:6
