IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DENNIS HOLLINGSWORTH, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 12-144
v. :
KRISTIN M. PERRY, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 26, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:07 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CHARLES J. COOPER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CHARLES J. COOPER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondents 50
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CHARLES J. COOPER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 64
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:07 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in Case 12-144, Hollingsworth v. Perry.
Mr. Cooper?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES J. COOPER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
New York's highest court, in a case similar
to this one, remarked that until quite recently, it was
an accepted truth for almost everyone who ever lived in
any society in which marriage existed. Marriage -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Cooper, we have
jurisdictional and merits issues here. Maybe it'd be
best if you could begin with the standing issue.
MR. COOPER: I'd be happy to,
Mr. Chief Justice.
Your Honor, the official proponents of
Proposition 8, the initiative, have standing to defend
that measure before this Court as representatives of the
people and the State of California to defend the
validity of a measure that they brought forward.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Have we ever granted
standing to proponents of ballot initiatives?
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor, the Court has
not done that, but the Court has never had before it a
clear expression from a unanimous State's high court
that -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, this is -- this
is -- the concern is certainly, the proponents are
interested in getting it on the ballot and seeing that
all of the proper procedures are followed, but once it's
passed, they have no proprietary interest in it. It's
law for them just as it is for everyone else. So how
are they distinguishable from the California citizenry
in general?
MR. COOPER: They're distinguishable, Your
Honor, because the Constitution of the State of
California and its election code provide, according to
the unanimous interpretation of the California Supreme
Court, that the official proponents, in addition to the
other official responsibilities and authorities that
they have in the initiative process, that those official
proponents also have the authority and the
responsibility to defend the validity of that
initiative -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess the attorney
general of this State doesn't have any proprietary
interest either, does he?
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor, nor did -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but he can defend
it, can't he -
MR. COOPER: -- nor did -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- because the law says he
can defend it.
MR. COOPER: That's right, Your Honor. Nor
did the legislative leaders in the Karcher case have -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Could the State -
MR. COOPER: -- any particular enforcement -
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- could -- could the State
assign to any citizen the rights to defend a judgment of
this kind?
MR. COOPER: Justice Kagan, that would be
a -- a very tough question. It's -- it's by no means
the question before the Court because -- because it
isn't any citizen. It's -- it is the -- it is the
official proponents that have a specific and -- and
carefully detailed -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I just -- if you would
on the hypothetical: Could a State just assign to
anybody the ability to do this?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, I think it very
well might. It very well might be able to decide that
any citizen could step forward and represent the
interests of the State and the people in that State -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, that would
be -- I'm sorry, are you finished?
MR. COOPER: Yes, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Okay. That -- that
may be true in terms of who they want to represent,
but -- but a State can't authorize anyone to proceed in
Federal court because that would leave the definition
under Article III of the Federal Constitution as to who
can bring -- who has standing to bring claims up to each
State. And I don't think we've ever allowed anything
like that.
MR. COOPER: But -- but, Your Honor, I guess
the point I want to make is that there is no question
the State has standing. The State itself has standing
to represent its own interests in the validity of its
own enactments. And if the State's public officials
decline to do that, it is within the State's authority
surely, I would submit, to identify, if not all -- any
citizen or at least supporter of -- of the measure,
certainly those, that that very clear and identifiable
group of citizens -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the Chief -- the
Chief Justice and Justice Kagan have given a proper
hypothetical to test your theory. But in this case the
proponents, number one, must give their official
address, they must pay money, and they must all act in
unison under California law. So these five proponents
were required at all times to act in unison, so that
distinguishes -- and to register and to pay money for
the -- so in that sense it's different from simply
saying any citizen.
MR. COOPER: But of course it is, and I
think the key -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But can you tell me -
that's a factual background with respect to their right
to put the ballot initiative on the ballot, but how does
it create an injury to them separate from that of every
other taxpayer to have laws enforced?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, the -- the question
before the Court, I would submit, is not the injury to
the individual proponents, it's the injury to the State.
The -- the legislators in the Karcher case had no
individual particularized injury, and yet this Court
recognized they were proper representatives of the
State's interests -- the State's injury -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At least one of the
amici have suggested that it seems counterintuitive to
think that the State is going to delegate to people who
don't have a fiduciary duty to them. That it's going to
delegate the responsibility of representing the State to
individuals who have their own views. They proposed the
ballot initiative because it was their individual views,
not necessarily that of the State. So -
MR. COOPER: Well -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: -- Justice Scalia
proffered the question of the Attorney General. The
Attorney General has no personal interest.
MR. COOPER: True.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: He has a fiduciary
obligation.
MR. COOPER: The Attorney General, whether
it's a fiduciary obligation or not, is in normal
circumstances the representative of the State to defend
the validity of the State's enactments when they are
challenged in Federal court. But when that officer
doesn't do so, the State surely has every authority and
I would submit the responsibility to identify
particularly in an initiative -- an initiative context.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Why isn't the fiduciary
duty requirements before the State can designate a
representative important?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, I would submit to
you that I don't think there's anything in Article III
or in any of this Court's decisions that suggest that a
representative of a State must be -- have a fiduciary
duty, but I would also suggest -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Well, generally you
don't need to specify it because generally the people
who get to enforce the legislation of the government are
people who are in government positions elected by the
people.
MR. COOPER: And Your Honor -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Here these individuals
are not elected by the people or appointed by the
people.
MR. COOPER: And the California Supreme
Court specifically addressed and rejected that specific
argument. They said it is in the context when the
public officials, the elected officials, the appointed
officials, have declined, have declined to defend a
statute. A statute that, by the way, excuse me, in this
case a constitutional amendment, was brought forward by
the initiative process.
The Court said it is essential to the
integrity, integrity of the initiative process in that
State, which is a precious right of every citizen. The
initiative process in that State, to ensure that when
public officials -- and after all, the initiative
process is designed to control those very public
officials, to take issues out of their hands.
And if public officials could effectively
veto an initiative by refusing to appeal it, then the
initiative process would be invalidated.
JUSTICE BREYER: That's -- historically, I
think, 40 States, many States have what was called a
public action. A public action is an action by any
citizen primarily to vindicate the interest in seeing
that the law is enforced.
MR. COOPER: In California -
JUSTICE BREYER: Now, that's the kind of
action I think that this Court has interpreted the
Constitution of the United States, case in controversy,
to say that it does not lie in the Federal system.
And of course, if that kind of action is the
very kind that does not lie, well, then to say, but they
really feel it's important that the law be enforced,
they really want to vindicate the process, and these are
people of special interests. They -- we found the five
citizens who most strongly want to vindicate the
interest in the law being enforced and the process for
making the law be enforced, well, that won't distinguish
it from a public action.
But then you say, but also they are
representing the State. At this point, the Dellinger
brief which takes the other side of it is making a
strong argument, well, they aren't the State. They are
really no more than a group of five people who feel
really strongly that we should vindicate this public
interest and have good reason for thinking it.
So you have read all these arguments that
it's not really the agent and so forth. What do you
want to say about it?
MR. COOPER: What I want to say, Your Honor,
is that according to the California Supreme Court, the
California Constitution says in terms that among the
responsibilities of official proponents, in addition to
the many other responsibilities that they step forward
and they assume in the initiative process, among those
responsibilities and authorities is to defend that
initiative if the public officials, which the initiative
process is designed to control, have refused to do it.
It might as well say it in those terms, Your Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Counsel, if you want
to proceed to the merits, you should feel free to do so.
MR. COOPER: Thank you very much, Your
Honor.
My -- my -- excuse me. As I was saying, the
accepted truth -- excuse me. The accepted truth that -
that the New York high court observed is one that is
changing and changing rapidly in this country as people
throughout the country engage in an earnest debate over
whether the age-old definition of marriage should be
changed to include same-sex couples.
The question before this Court is whether
the Constitution puts a stop to that ongoing democratic
debate and answers this question for all 50 States. And
it does so only if the Respondents are correct that no
rational, thoughtful person of goodwill could possibly
disagree with them, in good faith, on this agonizingly
difficult issue.
The issues, the constitutional issues that
have been presented to the Court, are not of first
impression here. In Baker v. Nelson, this Court
unanimously dismissed for want of a substantial Federal
question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Cooper, Baker v.
Nelson was 1971. The Supreme Court hadn't even decided
that gender-based classifications get any kind of
heightened scrutiny.
MR. COOPER: That is -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the same-sex intimate
conduct was considered criminal in many States in 1971,
so I don't think we can extract much in Baker v. Nelson.
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, certainly I
acknowledge the precedential limitations of a summary
dismissal. But Baker v. Nelson also came fairly fast on
the heels of the Loving decision. And, Your Honor, I
simply make the observation that it seems implausible in
the extreme, frankly, for nine justices to have -- to
have seen no substantial Federal question if it is true,
as the Respondents maintain, that the traditional
definition of marriage, insofar as -- insofar as it does
not include same-sex couples, insofar as it is a gender
definition, is irrational and can only be explained -
can only be explained, as a result of anti-gay malice
and a bare desire to harm.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you believe this can be
treated as a gender-based classification?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, I -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's a difficult question
that I've been trying to wrestle with it.
MR. COOPER: Yes, Your Honor. And we do
not. We do not think it is properly viewed as a
gender-based classification. Virtually every appellate
court, State and Federal, with one exception, Hawaii, in
a superseded the opinion, has agreed that it is not a
gender-based classification, but I guess it is gender
-based in the sense that marriage itself is a gendered
institution, a gendered term. And so in the same way
that fatherhood is gendered or motherhood is gendered,
it's gendered in that sense.
But we -- we agree that to the extent that
the classification impacts, as it clearly does, same-sex
couples, that -- that classification can be viewed as
being one of sexual orientation rather than -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Outside of the -
outside of the marriage context, can you think of any
other rational basis, reason for a State using sexual
orientation as a factor in denying homosexuals benefits
or imposing burdens on them? Is there any other
rational decision-making that the government could make?
Denying them a job, not granting them benefits of some
sort, any other decision?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, I cannot. I do not
have any -- anything to offer you in that regard. I
think marriage is -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. If that -
if that is true, then why aren't they a class? If
they're a class that makes any other discrimination
improper, irrational, then why aren't we treating them
as a class for this one thing? Are you saying that the
interest of marriage is so much more compelling than any
other interest as they could have?
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor, we certainly
are not. We -- we are saying the interest in marriage
and the -- and the State's interest and society's
interest in what we have framed as responsible pro -
procreation is -- is vital, but at bottom, with respect
to those interests, our submission is that same-sex
couples and opposite-sex couples are simply not
similarly situated.
But to come back to your precise question, I
think, Justice Sotomayor, you're -- you're probing into
whether or not sexual orientation ought to be viewed as
a quasi-suspect or suspect class, and our position is
that it does not qualify under this Court's standard
and -- and traditional tests for identifying
suspectedness. The -- the class itself is -- is quite
amorphous. It defies consistent definition as -- as the
Plaintiffs' own experts were -- were quite vivid on.
It -- it does not -- it -- it does not qualify as an
accident of birth, immutability in that -- in that
sense.
Again, the Plaintiffs -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you -- so what -- I
don't quite understand it. If you're not dealing with
this as a class question, then why would you say that
the government is not free to discriminate against them?
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, I would think
that -- that -- I think it's a -- it's a very different
question whether or not the government can proceed
arbitrarily and irrationally with respect to any group
of people, regardless of whether or not they qualify
under this Court's traditional test for suspectedness.
And -- and the hypothetical I understood you to be
offering, I would submit would create -- it would -
unless there's something that -- that is not occurring
to me immediately, an arbitrary and capricious
distinction among similarly situated individuals,
that -- that is not what we think is at the -- at the
root of the traditional definition of marriage.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Cooper, could I just
understand your argument. As -- in reading the briefs,
it seems as though your principal argument is that
same-sex and opposite -- sex couples are not similarly
situated because opposite-sex couples can procreate,
same-sex couples cannot, and the State's principal
interest in marriage is in regulating procreation. Is
that basically correct?
MR. COOPER: I -- Your Honor, that's the
essential thrust of our -- our position, yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Is -- is there -- so you
have sort of a reason for not including same-sex
couples. Is there any reason that you have for
excluding them? In other words, you're saying, well, if
we allow same-sex couples to marry, it doesn't serve the
State's interest. But do you go further and say that it
harms any State interest?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, we -- we go further
in -- in the sense that it is reasonable to be very
concerned that redefining marriage to -- as a genderless
institution could well lead over time to harms to that
institution and to the interests that society has
always -- has -- has always used that institution to
address. But, Your Honor, I -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, could you explain that
a little bit to me, just because I did not pick this up
in your briefs.
What harm you see happening and when and how
and -- what -- what harm to the institution of marriage
or to opposite-sex couples, how does this cause and
effect work?
MR. COOPER: Once again, I -- I would
reiterate that we don't believe that's the correct legal
question before the Court, and that the correct question
is whether or not redefining marriage to include
same-sex couples would advance the interests of marriage
as a -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then are -- are you
conceding the point that there is no harm or denigration
to traditional opposite-sex marriage couples? So you're
conceding that.
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor, no. I'm not
conceding that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but, then it -- then
it seems to me that you should have to address Justice
Kagan's question.
MR. COOPER: Thank you, Justice Kennedy. I
have two points to make on them.
The first one is this, the Plaintiffs'
expert acknowledged that redefining marriage will have
real-world consequences, and that it is impossible for
anyone to foresee the future accurately enough to know
exactly what those real-world consequences would be.
And among those real-world consequences, Your Honor, we
would suggest are adverse consequences.
But consider the California voter, in 2008,
in the ballot booth, with the question before her
whether or not this age-old bedrock social institution
should be fundamentally redefined, and knowing that
there's no way that she or anyone else could possibly
know what the long-term implications of a profound
redefinition of a bedrock social institution would be.
That is reason enough, Your Honor, that would hardly be
irrational for that voter to say, I believe that this
experiment, which is now only fairly four years old,
even in Massachusetts, the oldest State that is
conducting it, to say, I think it better for California
to hit the pause button and await additional information
from the jurisdictions where this experiment is still
maturing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Cooper, let me -- let
me give you one -- one concrete thing. I don't know why
you don't mention some concrete things. If you redefine
marriage to include same-sex couples, you must -- you
must permit adoption by same-sex couples, and there's -
there's considerable disagreement among -- among
sociologists as to what the consequences of raising a
child in a -- in a single-sex family, whether that is
harmful to the child or not. Some States do not -- do
not permit adoption by same-sex couples for that reason.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: California -- no,
California does.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think we know the
answer to that. Do you know the answer to that, whether
it -- whether it harms or helps the child?
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor. And there's -
there's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's a possible
deleterious effect, isn't it?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, it -- it is
certainly among the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It wouldn't be in
California, Mr. Cooper, because that's not an issue, is
it? In California, you can have same-sex couples
adopting a child.
MR. COOPER: That's right, Your Honor. That
is true. And -- but -- but, Your Honor, here's -
here's the point -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- it's true, but
irrelevant. They're arguing for a nationwide rule which
applies to States other than California, that every
State must allow marriage by same-sex couples. And so
even though States that believe it is harmful -- and I
take no position on whether it's harmful or not, but it
is certainly true that -- that there's no scientific
answer to that question at this point in time.
MR. COOPER: And -- and that, Your Honor, is
the point I am trying to make, and it is the
Respondents' responsibility to prove, under rational
basis review, not only that -- that there clearly will
be no harm, but that it's beyond debate that there will
be no harm.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Cooper, you are
defending -- you are opposing a judgment that applies to
California only, not to all of the States.
MR. COOPER: That's true, Your Honor. And
if there were a way to -- to cabin the arguments that
are being presented to you to California, then the
concerns about redefining marriage in -- in California
could be confined to California, but they cannot, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I think there's -
there's substantial -- that there's substance to the
point that sociological information is new. We have
five years of information to weigh against 2,000 years
of history or more.
On the other hand, there is an immediate
legal injury or legal -- what could be a legal injury,
and that's the voice of these children. There are some
40,000 children in California, according to the Red
Brief, that live with same-sex parents, and they want
their parents to have full recognition and full status.
The voice of those children is important in this case,
don't you think?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, I certainly would
not dispute the importance of that consideration. That
consideration especially in the political process where
this issue is being debated and will continue to be
debated, certainly, in California. It's being debated
elsewhere. But on that -- on that specific question,
Your Honor, there -- there simply is no data.
In fact, their expert agreed there is no
data, no study, even, that would examine whether or not
there is any incremental beneficial effect from marriage
over and above the domestic partnership laws that were
enacted by the State of California to recognize,
support, and honor same-sex relationships and their
families. There is simply no data at all that would -
that would permit one to draw -- draw that conclusion.
I would recall, Justice Kennedy, the point
made in Romer, that under a rational basis of review,
the provision will be sustained even if it operates to
the disadvantage of a group, if it is -- if it otherwise
advances rationally a legitimate State interest.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Cooper, we will
afford you more time. You shouldn't worry about losing
your rebuttal time, but please continue on.
MR. COOPER: Oh -
JUSTICE BREYER: As long as you are on that,
then I would like to ask you this, assume you could
distinguish California, suppose we accept your argument
or accept Justice Scalia's version of your argument and
that distinguishes California. Now, let's look at
California. What precisely is the way in which allowing
gay couples to marry would interfere with the vision of
marriage, as procreation of children, that allowing
sterile companies -- couples of different sexes to marry
would not?
I mean, there are lots of people who get
married who can't have children. To take a State that
does allow adoption and say -- there, what is the
justification for saying no gay marriage? Certainly not
the one you said, is it?
MR. COOPER: You're -
JUSTICE BREYER: Am I not clear?
Look, you said that the problem is marriage
as an institution that furthers procreation.
MR. COOPER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the reason there was
adoption, but that doesn't apply to California. So
imagine I wall off California and I'm looking just
there, where you say that doesn't apply. Now, what
happens to your argument about the institution of
marriage as a tool towards procreation? Given the fact
that, in California, too, couples that aren't gay, but
can't have children get married all the time.
MR. COOPER: Yes, Your Honor. The concern
is that redefining marriage as a genderless institution
will sever its abiding connection to its historic
traditional procreative purposes and it will refocus,
refocus the purpose of marriage and the definition of
marriage away from the raising of children and to the
emotional needs and desires of adults -- of adult
couples.
Suppose, in turn -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, suppose a State
said -- Mr. Cooper, suppose a State said that because we
think that the focus of marriage really should be on
procreation, we are not going to give marriage licenses
anymore to any couple where both people are over the age
of 55. Would that be constitutional?
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor, it would not be
constitutional.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Because that's the same
State interest, I would think, you know. If you are
over the age of 55, you don't help us serve the
government's interest in regulating procreation through
marriage. So why is that different?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, even with respect
to couples over the age of 55, it is very rare that both
couples -- both parties to the couple are infertile, and
the traditional -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, really, because if the
couple -- I can just assure you, if both the woman and
the man are over the age of 55, there are not a lot of
children coming out of that marriage.
(Laughter.)
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, society's -
society's interest in responsible procreation isn't just
with respect to the procreative capacities of the couple
itself. The marital norm, which imposes the -- the
obligations of fidelity and monogamy, Your Honor,
advances the interests in responsible procreation by
making it more likely that neither party, including the
fertile party to that -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Actually, I'm not even -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose we could have a
questionnaire at the marriage desk when people come in
to get the marriage -- you know, are you fertile or are
you not fertile?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suspect this Court would
hold that to be an unconstitutional invasion of privacy,
don't you think?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I just asked about
age. I didn't ask about anything else. That's not an
-- we ask about people's age all the time.
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, and even asking
about age, you would have to ask if both parties are
infertile. Again -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Strom Thurmond was -- was
not the chairman of the Senate committee when Justice
Kagan was confirmed.
(Laughter.)
MR. COOPER: Very few men -- very few men
outlive their own fertility. So I just -
JUSTICE KAGAN: A couple where both people
are over the age of 55 -
MR. COOPER: I -
JUSTICE KAGAN: A couple where both people
are over the age of 55.
MR. COOPER: And Your Honor, again, the
marital norm which imposes upon that couple the
obligation of fidelity -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry, where is
that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, maybe you
can finish your answer to Justice Kagan.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
MR. COOPER: It's designed, Your Honor, to
make it less likely that either party to that -- to that
marriage will engage in irresponsible, procreative
conduct outside of that marriage. Outside of that
marriage. That's the marital -- that's the marital
norm. Society has an interest in seeing a 55-year-old
couple that is -- just as it has an interest of seeing
any heterosexual couple that intends to engage in a
prolonged period of cohabitation to reserve that until
they have made a marital commitment, a marital
commitment. So that, should that union produce any
offspring, it would be more likely that that child or
children will be raised by the mother and father who
brought them into the world.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Cooper, we said that
somebody who is locked up in prison and who is not going
to get out has a right to marry -- has a fundamental
right to marry, no possibility of procreation.
MR. COOPER: Your Honor is referring, I'm
sure, to the Turner case, and -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. COOPER: -- I think that, with due
respect, Justice Ginsburg, way over-reads -- way
over-reads Turner against Safley. That was a case in
which the prison at issue -- and it was decided in the
specific context of a particular prison -- where there
were both female and male inmates, many of them minimum
security inmates. It was dealing with a regulation,
Your Honor, that had previously permitted marriage in
the case of pregnancy and childbirth.
The Court -- the Court here emphasized that,
among the incidents of marriage that are not destroyed
by that -- at least that prison context, was the
expectation of eventual consummation of the marriage and
legitimation of -- of the children. So that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Cooper.
MR. COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Olson?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I know that you will want me to spend a
moment or two addressing the standing question, but
before I do that, I thought that it would be important
for this Court to have Proposition 8 put in context,
what it does.
It walls-off gays and lesbians from
marriage, the most important relation in life, according
to this Court, thus stigmatizing a class of Californians
based upon their status and labeling their most
cherished relationships as second-rate, different,
unequal, and not okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Olson, I cut off
your friend before he could get into the merits. So I
think it's only fair -
MR. OLSON: I was trying to avoid that, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know -
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think it's
only fair to treat you the same. Perhaps you could
address your jurisdictional argument?
MR. OLSON: Yes. I think that our
jurisdictional argument is, as we set forth in the
brief, California cannot create Article III standing by
designating whoever it wants to defend the State of
California in connection with the ballot.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But this is not whoever it
wants. These are five proponents of -- of the measure
and if we were to accept your argument, it would give
the State a one-way ratchet. The State could go in and
make a defense, maybe a half-hearted defense of the
statute, and -- and then when the statute is held
invalid, simply -- simply leave. On the other hand,
if -- if the State loses, the State can appeal.
So this is a one-way ratchet as it favors
the State and allows governors and other constitutional
officers in different States to thwart the initiative
process.
MR. OLSON: That's the -- that's the way the
California Supreme Court saw it with respect to
California law. The governor and the Attorney General
of California are elected to act in the best interests
of the State of California. They made a professional
judgment given their obligations as officers of the
State of California.
The California Supreme Court has said that
proponents -- and by the way, only four of the five are
here. Dr. Tam withdrew from the case because of some -
many things he said during the election -- campaign.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Mr. Olson, is it your
position that the only people who could defend a
ballot -- a law that's adopted in California through the
ballot initiative are the Attorney General and the
governor, so that if the Attorney General and the
governor don't like the ballot initiative, it will go
undefended? Is that your position?
MR. OLSON: I don't -- I don't think it's
quite that limited. I think one of your colleagues
suggested that there could be an officer appointed.
There could be an appointee of the State of California
who had responsibility, fiduciary responsibility to the
State of California and the citizens of California, to
represent the State of California along -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who -- who would appoint
him? The same governor that didn't want to defend the
plebiscite?
MR. OLSON: Well, that happens all the time.
As you recall in the case of -- well, let's not spend
too much time on independent counsel provisions, but -
(Laughter.)
MR. OLSON: The governor -- the government
of the State of California frequently appoints an
attorney where there's a perceived conflict of
interest -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose -
MR. OLSON: -- and that person would have a
responsibility for the State and might have
responsibility for the attorneys' fees.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose there
might be people out there with their own personal
standing, someone who performs marriages and would like
that to remain open to everyone but would prefer not to
perform same-sex marriages, or other people. We seem to
be addressing the case as if the only options are the
proponents here or the State. I'm not sure there aren't
other people out there with individual personalized
injury that would satisfy Article III.
MR. OLSON: There might well be in -- in a
different case. I don't know about this case. If there
was, for example, this was an initiative measure that
allocated certain resources of the State of California
and the people -- maybe it was a binary system of people
got resources and other people didn't get resources,
there could be standing. Someone would show actual
injury.
The point, I guess, at the bottom of this is
the Supreme Court -- this Court, decided in
Raines v. Byrd that Congress couldn't specify members of
Congress in that context even where the measure depleted
or diminished powers of Congress -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Olson, I think the
bottom line -
JUSTICE ALITO: The States are not bound by
the same separation of powers doctrine that underlies
the Federal Constitution. You couldn't have a Federal
initiative, for example. They're free of all that.
So start from the proposition that a State
has standing to defend the constitutionality of a State
law -- beyond dispute. The question then is, who
represents the State?
Now, in a State that has initiative, the
whole process would be defeated if the only people who
could defend the statute are the elected public
officials. The whole point -- you know this better than
I do because you're from California -- the whole point
of the initiative process was to allow the people to
circumvent public officials about whom they were
suspicious.
So if you reject that proposition, what is
left is the proposition that the State -- State law can
choose some other person, some other group to defend the
constitutionality of a State law. And the California
Supreme Court has told us that the Plaintiffs in this
case are precisely those people.
So how do you get around that?
MR. OLSON: The only -- that's exactly what
the California Supreme Court thought. The California
Supreme Court thought that it could decide that the
proponents, whoever they were, and this could be
25 years after the election, it could be one of the
proponents, it could be four of the proponents. They
could have an interest other than the State because they
have no fiduciary responsibility to the State. They may
be incurring attorneys' fees on behalf of the State or
on behalf of themselves, but they haven't been
appointed. They have no official responsibility to the
State.
And my only argument, and I know it's a
close one because California thinks that this is the
system. The California Supreme Court thought that this
was a system that would be a default system. I'm
suggesting from your decisions with respect to Article
III that that takes more than that under -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Olson, I think that
you're not answering the fundamental fear. And so -
and -- and the amici brief that sets forth this test of
fiduciary duty doesn't quite either.
The assumption is that there are not
executive officials who want to defend the law. They
don't like it. No one's going to do that. So how do
you get the law defended in that situation?
MR. OLSON: I don't have an answer to that
question unless there's an appointment process either
built into the system where it's an officer of
California or -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why -- why isn't this
viewed as an appointment process that the in -- the
ballot initiators have now become that body?
MR. OLSON: And that's the argument -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That your argument -
MR. OLSON: That's our -- that's the
argument our opponents make. But it -- but it must be
said that it happens all of the time. That Federal
officials and State officials decide not to enforce a
statute, to enforce a statute in certain ways. We don't
then come in and decide that there's someone else ought
to be in court for every particular -
JUSTICE BREYER: What the brief says is, of
course, you can appoint people. It's not just that you
appoint them, it's that the State's interest when it
defends a law is the interest in executing the law of
the State. So all you have to do is give a person that
interest. But when a person has the interest of
defending this law, as opposed to defending the law of
the State of California, there can be all kinds of
conflicts, all kinds of situations.
That's what I got out of the brief. So give
the person that interest. And that, they say, is what's
missing here. And you'll say -- I mean, that's -
that's here, and you say it's missing here.
MR. OLSON: Yeah, I don't -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why is it missing here?
MR. OLSON: It is -- what is missing here
because you're not an officer of the State of
California. You don't have a fiduciary duty to the
State of California. You're not bound by the ethical
standards of an officer of the State of California to
represent the State of California. You could have
conflicts of interest. And as I said, you'd be -- could
be incurring enormous legal fees, on behalf of the
State, when the State hasn't decided to go that route.
I think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You should feel free
to move on to the merits.
MR. OLSON: Thank you, Your Honor. As I
pointed out at the -- at the outset, this is a measure
that walls off the institution of marriage, which is not
society's right. It's an individual right that this
Court again and again and again has said the right to
get married, the right to have the relationship of
marriage is a personal right. It's a part of the right
of privacy, association, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness.
In the cases in which you've described the
right to get married under the Constitution, you've
described it as marriage, procreation, family, other
things like that. So the procreation aspect, the
responsibility or ability or interest in procreation is
not a part of the right to get married. Now, that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not sure,
counsel, that it makes -- I'm not sure that it's right
to view this as excluding a particular group. When the
institution of marriage developed historically, people
didn't get around and say let's have this institution,
but let's keep out homosexuals. The institution
developed to serve purposes that, by their nature,
didn't include homosexual couples.
It is -- yes, you can say that it serves
some of the other interests where it makes sense to
include them, but not all the interests. And it seems
to me, your friend argues on the other side, if you have
an institution that pursues additional interests, you
don't have to include everybody just because some other
aspects of it can be applied to them.
MR. OLSON: Well, there's a couple of
answers to that, it seems to me, Mr. Chief Justice. In
this case, that decision to exclude gays and lesbians
was made by the State of California.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, that's only
because Proposition 8 came 140 days after the California
Supreme Court issued its decision.
MR. OLSON: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And don't you think
it's more reasonable to view it as a change by the
California Supreme Court of this institution that's been
around since time immemorial?
MR. OLSON: The California Supreme Court,
like this Supreme Court, decides what the law is. The
California Supreme Court decided that the Equal
Protection and Due Process Clauses of that California
Constitution did not permit excluding gays and lesbians
from the right to get married -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you've led me right
into a question I was going to ask. The California
Supreme Court decides what the law is. That's what we
decide, right? We don't prescribe law for the future.
We -- we decide what the law is. I'm curious, when -
when did -- when did it become unconstitutional to
exclude homosexual couples from marriage? 1791? 1868,
when the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted?
Sometimes -- some time after Baker, where we
said it didn't even raise a substantial Federal
question? When -- when -- when did the law become this?
MR. OLSON: When -- may I answer this in the
form of a rhetorical question? When did it become
unconstitutional to prohibit interracial marriages?
When did it become unconstitutional to assign children
to separate schools.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's an easy question, I
think, for that one. At -- at the time that the -- the
Equal Protection Clause was adopted. That's absolutely
true.
But don't give me a question to my question.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: When do you think it became
unconstitutional? Has it always been unconstitutional?
MR. OLSON: When the -- when the California
Supreme Court faced the decision, which it had never
faced before, is -- does excluding gay and lesbian
citizens, who are a class based upon their status as
homosexuals -- is it -- is it constitutional -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's not when it
became unconstitutional. That's when they acted in an
unconstitutional matter -- in an unconstitutional
manner. When did it become unconstitutional to prohibit
gays from marrying?
MR. OLSON: That -- they did not assign a
date to it, Justice Scalia, as you know. What the court
decided was the case that came before it -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not talking about the
California Supreme Court. I'm talking about your
argument. You say it is now unconstitutional.
MR. OLSON: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was it always
unconstitutional?
MR. OLSON: It was constitutional when we -
as a culture determined that sexual orientation is a
characteristic of individuals that they cannot control,
and that that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see. When did that
happen? When did that happen?
MR. OLSON: There's no specific date in
time. This is an evolutionary cycle.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, how am I supposed to
know how to decide a case, then -
MR. OLSON: Because the case that's before
you -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- if you can't give me a
date when the Constitution changes?
MR. OLSON: -- in -- the case that's before
you today, California decided -- the citizens of
California decided, after the California Supreme Court
decided that individuals had a right to get married
irrespective of their sexual orientation in California
and then the Californians decided in Proposition 8, wait
a minute, we don't want those people to be able to get
married.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- so your
case -- your case would be different if Proposition 8
was enacted into law prior to the California Supreme
Court decision?
MR. OLSON: I would make -- I would make
the -- also would make the -- that distinguishes it in
one respect. But what also -- also -- I would also make
the argument, Mr. Chief Justice, that we are -- this -
marriage is a fundamental right and we are making a
classification based upon a status of individuals, which
this Court has repeatedly decided that gays and lesbians
are defined by their status. There is no question about
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it would be
unconstitutional even in States that did not allow
civil unions?
MR. OLSON: We do, we submit that. You
could write a narrower decision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So I want to know
how long it has been unconstitutional in those -
MR. OLSON: I don't -- when -- it seems to
me, Justice Scalia, that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me you ought to
be able to tell me when. Otherwise, I don't know how to
decide the case.
MR. OLSON: I -- I submit you've never
required that before. When you decided that -- that
individuals -- after having decided that separate but
equal schools were permissible, a decision by this
Court, when you decided that that was unconstitutional,
when did that become unconstitutional?
JUSTICE SCALIA: 50 years ago, it was okay?
MR. OLSON: I -- I can't answer that
question and I don't think this Court has ever phrased
the question in that way.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I can't either. That's the
problem. That's exactly the problem.
MR. OLSON: But what I have before you now,
the case that's before you today is whether or not
California can take a class of individuals based upon
their characteristics, their distinguishing
characteristics, remove from them the right of privacy,
liberty, association, spirituality, and identity that -
that marriage gives them.
It -- it is -- it is not an answer to say
procreation or anything of that nature because
procreation is not a part of the right to get married.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's really -- that's a
broad argument that you -- that's in this case if the
Court wants to reach it. The rationale of the Ninth
Circuit was much more narrow. It basically said that
California, which has been more generous, more open to
protecting same-sex couples than almost any State in the
Union, just didn't go far enough and it's being
penalized for not going far enough.
That's a very odd rationale on which to
sustain this opinion.
MR. OLSON: This Court has always looked
into the context. In, for example, the New Orleans case
involving the gambling casinos and advertising, you look
at the context of what was permitted, what was not
permitted, and does that rationalization for prohibiting
in that case the advertising, in this case prohibiting
the relationship of marriage, does it make any sense in
the context of what exists?
JUSTICE ALITO: Oh seriously, Mr. Olson,
if California provides all the substantive benefits of
marriage to same-sex domestic partnerships, are you
seriously arguing that if California -- if the State -
if the case before us now were from a State that doesn't
provide any of those benefits to same-sex couples, this
case would come out differently?
MR. OLSON: No, I don't think it would come
out differently because of the fundamental arguments
we're making with respect to class-based distinctions
with respect to a fundamental right. However, to the
extent that my opponent in the context of California,
talks about child-rearing or adoptions or -- or of
rights of people to live together and that sort of
thing, those arguments can't be made on behalf of
California because California's already made a decision
that gay and lesbian individuals are perfectly suitable
as parents, they're perfectly suitable to adopt, they're
raising 37,000 children in California, and the expert on
the other side specifically said and testified that they
would be better off when their parents were allowed to
get married.
JUSTICE ALITO: I don't think you can have
it both ways. Either this case is the same, this would
be the same if this were Utah or Oklahoma or it's
different because it's California and California has
provided all these -
MR. OLSON: I -- I think that it's not that
we're arguing that those are inconsistent. If the -- if
the fundamental thing is that denying gays and lesbians
the right of marriage, which is fundamental under your
decisions, that is unconstitutional. If it is -- if the
State comes forth with certain arguments -- Utah might
come forth with certain justifications. California
might come forth with others. But the fact is that
California can't make the arguments about adoption or
child-rearing or people living together because they
have already made policy decisions. So that doesn't
make them inconsistent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's just
about -- it's just about the label in this case.
MR. OLSON: The label is like -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Same-sex couples
have every other right, it's just about the label.
MR. OLSON: The label "marriage" means
something. Even our opponents -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure. If you
tell -- if you tell a child that somebody has to be
their friend, I suppose you can force the child to say,
this is my friend, but it changes the definition of what
it means to be a friend.
And that's it seems to me what the -- what
supporters of Proposition 8 are saying here. You're -
all you're interested in is the label and you insist on
changing the definition of the label.
MR. OLSON: It is like you were to say you
can vote, you can travel, but you may not be a citizen.
There are certain labels in this country that are very,
very critical. You could have said in the Loving case,
what -- you can't get married, but you can have an
interracial union. Everyone would know that that was
wrong. That the -- marriage has a status, recognition,
support, and you -- if you read the test -- you know -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do we know -
how do we know that that's the reason, or a necessary
part of the reason, that we've recognized marriage as a
fundamental right? That's -- you've emphasized that and
you've said, well, it's because of the emotional
commitment. Maybe it is the procreative aspect that
makes it a fundamental right.
MR. OLSON: But you have said that marriage
is a fundamental right with respect to procreation and
at the same level getting married, privacy -- you said
that in the Zablocki case, you said that in the Lawrence
case, and you said it in other cases, the Skinner case,
for example.
Marriage is put on a pro -- equal footing
with procreational aspects. And your -- this Court is
the one that has said over and over again that marriage
means something to the individual. The privacy,
intimacy, and that it is a matter of status and
recognition in this -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Olson, the bottom
line that you're being asked -- and -- and it is one
that I'm interested in the answer, if you say that
marriage is a fundamental right, what State restrictions
could ever exist? Meaning, what State restrictions with
respect to the number of people, with respect to -- that
could get married -- the incest laws, the mother and
child, assuming that they are the age -- I can -- I can
accept that the State has probably an overbearing
interest on -- on protecting a child until they're of
age to marry, but what's left?
MR. OLSON: Well, you've said -- you've said
in the cases decided by this Court that the polygamy
issue, multiple marriages raises questions about
exploitation, abuse, patriarchy, issues with respect to
taxes, inheritance, child custody, it is an entirely
different thing. And if you -- if a State prohibits
polygamy, it's prohibiting conduct.
If it prohibits gay and lesbian citizens
from getting married, it is prohibiting their exercise
of a right based upon their status. It's selecting them
as a class, as you described in the Romer case and as
you described in the Lawrence case and in other cases,
you're picking out a group of individuals to deny them
the freedom that you've said is fundamental, important,
and vital in this society, and it has status and
stature, as you pointed out in the VMI case. There's
a -- there's a different -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Is there any way to
decide this case in a principled manner that is limited
to California only?
MR. OLSON: Yes, the Ninth Circuit did that.
You can decide the standing case that limits it to the
decision of the district court here. You could decide
it as the Ninth Circuit did -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: The problem -- the problem
with the case is that you're really asking, particularly
because of the sociological evidence you cite, for us to
go into uncharted waters, and you can play with that
metaphor, there's a wonderful destination, it is a
cliff. Whatever that was.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But you're -- you're doing
so in a -- in a case where the opinion is very narrow.
Basically that once the State goes halfway, it has to go
all the way or 70 percent of the way, and you're doing
so in a case where there's a substantial question on -
on standing. I just wonder if -- if the case was
properly granted.
MR. OLSON: Oh, the case was certainly
properly granted, Your Honor. I mean, there was a full
trial of all of these issues. There was a 12-day trial.
The judge insisted on evidence on all of these
questions. This -- this is a -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But that's not the issue
the Ninth Circuit decided.
MR. OLSON: The issue -- yes, the Ninth
Circuit looked at it and decided because of your
decision on the Romer case -- this Court's decision on
the Romer case, that it could be decided on the narrower
issue, but it certainly was an appropriate case to
grant. And those issues that I've been describing are
certainly fundamental to the case. And -- and I don't
want to abuse the Court's indulgence, that what I -- you
suggested that this is uncharted waters. It was
uncharted waters when this Court, in 1967, in the Loving
decision said that interracial -- prohibitions
on interracial marriages, which still existed in 16
States, were unconstitutional.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It was hundreds of years
old in the common law countries. This was new to the
United States.
MR. OLSON: And -- and what we have here -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: So -- so that's not
accurate.
MR. OLSON: I -- I respectfully submit that
we've under -- we've learned to understand more about
sexual orientation and what it means to individuals. I
guess the -- the language that Justice Ginsburg used at
the closing of the VMI case is an important thing, it
resonates with me, "A prime part of the history of our
Constitution is the story of the extension of
constitutional rights to people once ignored or
excluded."
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel.
General Verrilli?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR.,
FOR UNITED STATES, AS AMICUS CURIAE,
SUPPORTING THE RESPONDENTS
GENERAL VERRILLI: Mr. Chief Justice, and
may it please the Court:
Proposition 8 denies gay and lesbian persons
the equal protection of the laws -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You don't think
you're going to get away with not starting with the
jurisdictional question, do you?
(Laughter.)
GENERAL VERRILLI: As an amicus, I thought I
might actually, Your Honor. And -- and, of course, we
didn't take a position on standing. We didn't -- we
didn't brief it. We don't have a formal position on
standing, but I will offer this observation based on the
discussion today and the briefing.
We do think that, while it's certainly not
free of doubt, that the better argument is that there is
not Article III standing here because -- I don't want to
go beyond just summarizing our position, but -- because
we don't have a formal position.
But we do think that with respect to
standing, that at this point with the initiative process
over, that Petitioners really have what is more in the
nature of a generalized grievance and because they're
not an agent of the State of California or don't have
any other official tie to the State that would -- would
result in any official control of their litigation, that
the better conclusion is that there's not Article III
standing here.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, tomorrow you're going
to be making a standing argument that some parties think
is rather tenuous, but today, you're -- you're very
strong for Article III standing?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, we said this was
a -- we said this was a close question, and -- and our
interests are, Justice Alito, in tomorrow's issues where
we have briefed the matter thoroughly and will be
prepared to discuss it with the Court tomorrow.
With respect to the merits, two fundamental
points lead to the conclusion that there's an equal
protection violation here. First, every warning flag
that warrants exacting scrutiny is present in this case.
And Petitioners' defense of Proposition 8 requires the
Court to ignore those warning flags and instead apply
highly deferential Lee Optical rational basis review as
though Proposition 8 were on a par with the law of
treating opticians less favorably than optometrists,
when it really is the polar opposite of such a law.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: General Verrilli, I could
understand your argument if you were talking about the
entire United States, but you -- your brief says it's
only eight or nine States, the States that permit civil
unions, and that's -- brings up a question that was
asked before. So a State that has made considerable
progress has to go all the way, but at least the
government's position is, if it has done -- the State
has done absolutely nothing at all, then it's -- it can
do -- do as it will.
GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- that gets to my
second point, Your Honor, which is that I do think the
problem here with the arguments that Petitioners are
advancing is that California's own laws do cut the legs
out from under all of the justifications that
Petitioners have offered in defense of Proposition 8.
And I understand Your Honor's point and the point that
Justice Kennedy raised earlier, but I do think this
Court's equal protection jurisprudence requires the
Court to evaluate the interests that the State puts
forward, not in a vacuum, but in the context of the
actual substance of California law.
And here, with respect to California law,
gay and lesbian couples do have the legal rights and
benefits of marriage, full equality and adoption, full
access to assistive reproduction, and therefore, the
argument about the State's interests that -- that
Petitioners advance have to be tested against that
reality, and -- and they just don't measure up. None of
the -
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the argument -
JUSTICE ALITO: None of the -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Justice Breyer.
JUSTICE BREYER: What is the one -- look, a
State that does nothing for gay couples hurts them much
more than a State that does something. And, of course,
it's true that it does hurt their argument that they do
quite a lot, but which are their good arguments, in your
opinion? I mean, take a State that really does nothing
whatsoever.
They have no benefits, no nothing, no
nothing. Okay? And moreover, if -- if you're right,
even in California, if they have -- if they're right
or -- you know, if a pact is enough, they won't get
Federal benefits. Those that are tied to marriage
because they're not married. So -- so a State that does
nothing hurts them much more, and yet your brief seems
to say it's more likely to be justified under the
Constitution.
I'd like to know with some specificity how
that could be.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, because you have to
measure the -- under the standard of equal protection
scrutiny that we think this Court's cases require.
JUSTICE BREYER: I know the principle, but
I'm saying which are their good arguments, in your
opinion, that would be good enough to overcome for the
State that does nothing, but not good enough to overcome
California where they do a lot?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, we -- what we're -
what we're saying about that is that we're not prepared
to close the door to an argument in another State where
the State's interests haven't cut the legs out from
under the arguments. And I think -- I suppose the
caution rationale that Mr. Cooper identified with
respect to the effects on children, if it came up in a
different case with a different record, after all here,
this case was litigated by Petitioners on the theory
that rational basis applied and they didn't need to show
anything and so they didn't try to show anything.
Our view is that heightened scrutiny should
apply and so I don't want to -- I don't want to kid
about this, we understand, that would be a very heavy
burden for a State to meet. All we're suggesting is
that in a situation in which the -- the State interests
aren't cut out from under it, as they -- as they are
here, that that issue ought to remain open for a future
case. And I -- and I think the caution rationale would
be the one place where we might leave it open. But you
can't leave it open in this case.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: General, there is an
irony in that, which is the States that do more have
less rights.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well -- well, I
understand that, Your Honor, but I do think that you
have to think about the claim of right on the other side
of the equation here. And in this situation,
California -- the argument here that -- that gay and
lesbian couples can be denied access to marriage on the
ground of an interest in responsible procreation and
child rearing just can't stand up given that the parents
have full equality, the gay and lesbian parents have
full equality apart from -
JUSTICE ALITO: You want us to assess the
effects of same-sex marriage, the potential effects
on -- of same-sex marriage, the potential -- the effects
of Proposition 8. But what is your response to the
argument, which has already been mentioned about the
need to be cautious in light of the newness of the -
the concept of -- of same-sex marriage?
The one thing that the parties in this case
seem to agree on is that marriage is very important.
It's thought to be a fundamental building block of
society and its preservation essential for the
preservation of society. Traditional marriage has been
around for thousands of years. Same-sex marriage is
very new. I think it was first adopted in The
Netherlands in 2000. So there isn't a lot of data about
its effect. And it may turn out to be a -- a good
thing. It may turn out not to be a good thing, as the
supporters of Proposition 8 apparently believe.
But you want us to step in and render a
decision based on an assessment of the effects of this
institution, which is newer than cell phones or the
Internet? I mean we -- we are not -- we do not have the
ability to see the future.
On a question like that, of such fundamental
importance, why should it not be left for the people,
either acting through initiatives and referendums or
through their elected public officials?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I have four points I
would like to make to that in response to that,
Justice Alito, and I think they are all important.
First, California did not, through
Proposition 8, do what my friend Mr. Cooper said and
push a pause button. They pushed a delete button. This
is a permanent ban. It's in the Constitution. It's
supposed to take this issue out from the legislative
process. So that's the first point.
Second -
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, just in response to
that, of course the Constitution could be amended,
and -- and I think I read that the California
Constitution has been amended 500 times.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But the -
JUSTICE ALITO: So it's not exactly like the
U.S. Constitution.
GENERAL VERRILLI: But it does -- of course
not. But it is -- but the aim of this is to take it out
of the normal legislative process.
The second point is that, with respect to
concerns that Your Honor has raised, California has been
anything but cautious. It has given equal parenting
rights, equal adoption rights. Those rights are on the
books in California now and so the interest of
California is -- that Petitioners are articulating, with
respect to Proposition 8, has to be measured in that
light.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Yeah, but the rest of the
country has been cautious.
GENERAL VERRILLI: And -- and that's why -
JUSTICE SCALIA: And we're -- and you are
asking us to impose this on the whole country, not just
California.
GENERAL VERRILLI: No, respectfully
Justice Scalia, we are not. Our position is narrower
than that. Our position -- the position we have taken,
is about States, it applies to States that have, like
California and perhaps other States, that have granted
these rights short of marriage, but -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I don't want to -- I
want you to get back to Justice Alito's other points,
but is it the position of the United States that
same-sex marriage is not required throughout the
country?
GENERAL VERRILLI: We are not -- we are not
taking the position that it is required throughout the
country. We think that that ought to be left open for a
future adjudication in other States that don't have the
situation California has.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So your -- your position is
only if a State allows civil unions does it become
unconstitutional to forbid same-sex marriage, right?
GENERAL VERRILLI: I -- I see my red light
is on.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, you can go on.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Thank you.
Our position is -- I would just take out a
red pen and take the word "only" out of that sentence.
When that is true, then the Equal Protection Clause
forbids the exclusion of same-sex marriage and it's an
open question otherwise.
And if I could just get to the third reason,
which I do think is quite significant.
The -- the argument here about caution is an
argument that, well, we need to wait. We understand
that. We take it seriously. But waiting is not a
neutral act. Waiting imposes real costs in the here and
now. It denies to the -- to the parents who want to
marry the ability to marry, and it denies to the
children, ironically, the very thing that Petitioners
focus on is at the heart of the marriage relationship.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you are willing
to wait in the rest of the country. You saying it's got
to happen right now in California, but you don't even
have a position about whether it's required in the rest
of the country.
GENERAL VERRILLI: It -- if, with respect to
a State that allows gay couples to have children and to
have families and then denies the stabilizing effect -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's got to
happen right away in those States where same-sex couples
have every legal right that married couples do.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, we think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you can wait in
States where they have fewer legal rights.
GENERAL VERRILLI: What I said is it's an
open question with respect to those States and the Court
should wait and see what kind of a record a State could
make. But in California you can't make the record to
justify the exclusion.
And the fourth point I would make on this,
recognizing that these situations are not -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: How would the record be
different elsewhere?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, they might try to
make a different record about the effects on children.
But there isn't a record to that effect here.
And the fourth point I would make, and I do
think this is significant, is that the principal
argument in 1967, with respect to Loving and that the
Commonwealth of Virginia advanced was, well, the social
science is still uncertain about how biracial children
will fare in this world, and so you ought to apply
rational basis scrutiny and wait. And I think the Court
recognized that there is a cost to waiting and that that
has got to be part of the equal protection calculus.
And so -- so I do think that's quite fundamental.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Can I ask you a
problem about -
GENERAL VERRILLI: Sure.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: -- I -- it seems to
me that your position that you are supporting is
somewhat internally inconsistent. We see the argument
made that there is no problem with extending marriage to
same-sex couples because children raised by same-sex
couples are doing just fine and there is no evidence
that they are being harmed.
And the other argument is Proposition 8
harms children by not allowing same-sex couples to
marriage. Which is it?
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, I -- I think what
Proposition 8 does is deny the long-term stabilizing
effect that marriage brings. That's -- that's the
argument for -- for marriage, that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: But you also tell me
there has been no harm shown to children of same-sex
couples.
GENERAL VERRILLI: California -- there are
37,000 children in same-sex families in California now.
Their parents cannot marry and that has effects on them
in the here and now.
A stabilizing effect is not there. When
they go to school, they have to -- you know -- they
don't have parents like everybody else's parents.
That's a real effect, a real cost in the here and now.
JUSTICE BREYER: Well, the real cost right
now would be you're asking me to write these words, "a
State that has a pact has to say 'marriage,'" but I'm
not telling you about States that don't. Well, I would
guess there is a real-world effect there, too. That
States that are considering pacts will all say, we won't
do it, or not all, but some would.
And that would have a real effect right now.
And at the moment, I'm thinking it's much more harmful
to the gay couple, the latter than the former. But you
won't give me advice as the government as to how to deal
with that.
GENERAL VERRILLI: Well, we -- we think
that, as I started my argument, Your Honor, that all the
warning flags for exacting equal protection scrutiny are
present here. This is a group that has suffered a
history of terrible discrimination. The Petitioners
don't deny it.
Petitioners said at the podium today that
there is no justification for that discrimination in any
realm other than the one posed in this case and the -
and so when those two factors are present, those are
paradigm considerations for the application of
heightened scrutiny, and so I don't want to suggest that
the States that haven't taken those steps -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But they are not the
only ones.
GENERAL VERRILLI: -- that States that
haven't taken this step, that they are going to have an
easy time meeting heightened scrutiny, which I think has
to apply -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Suppose -- suppose one of
those States repeals its civil union laws?
GENERAL VERRILLI: It would be a different
case. And all I'm saying is that the door ought to
remain open to that case, not that it would be easy for
the State to prevail in that case.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, General.
Mr. Cooper, to keep things fair, I think you
have 10 minutes.
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES J. COOPER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. COOPER: Thank you very much.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: And you might address why
you think we should take and decide this case.
MR. COOPER: Yes, Your Honor, and that is
the one thing on which I wholeheartedly agree with my
friend Mr. Olson. This case was properly -- is now
properly before the Court and was properly granted, even
if, even if, Your Honor, one could defend the -- the
specific judgment below for the Ninth Circuit, a defense
that I haven't heard offered to this Court. Judicial
redefinition of marriage even in -- even if it can be
limited to California, is well worthy of this Court's
attention, particularly, Your Honor, as it come from a
single district court judge in a single jurisdiction.
I would also like -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I think that begs
your -- Mr. Olson doesn't really focus on this. If the
issue is letting the States experiment and letting the
society have more time to figure out its direction, why
is taking a case now the answer?
MR. COOPER: Because, Your Honor -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: We let issues perk and
so we let racial segregation perk for 50 years from 1898
to 1954.
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, it is hard to -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: And now we are only
talking about, at most, four years.
MR. COOPER: It is hard to imagine a case
that would be better, or more thoroughly, I should say,
at least, briefed and argued to this Court.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's too late for that, too
late for that now, isn't it? I mean, we granted cert.
I mean, that's essentially asking -- you know, why did
we grant cert. We should let it percolate for
another -- you know, we -- we have crossed that river, I
think.
MR. COOPER: And in this particular case, to
not grant certiorari is to essentially bless a judicial
decision that there -- that at least in the State of
California, the people have no authority to step back,
hit the pause button, and allow the experiments that are
taking place in this country to further mature. That in
fact, at least in California -- and it's impossible to
limit this ruling, Your Honor, even to California, even
the Solicitor General's argument, he says, applies to at
least eight States.
It's impossible to limit these -- these
propositions to any particular jurisdiction, so this
Court would be making a very real decision with respect
to same-sex marriage if it should simply decide to
dismiss the writ as improvidently granted,
Justice Kennedy.
And let's -- let's just step back and just
consider for a moment the Solicitor General's argument.
He is basically submitting to the Court that essentially
the one compromise that is not available to the States
is the one that the State of California has undertaken.
That is, to go as far as the people possibly can in -
in honoring and recognizing the families and the
relationships of same-sex couples, while still
preserving the existence of traditional marriage as an
institution. That's the one thing that's off the table.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I thought he was saying
-- I thought he was saying, Mr. Cooper, that it's not
before the Court today. And remember Loving against
Virginia was preceded by the McLaughlin case. So first
there was the question of no marriage, and then there
was marriage.
So in that sense I understood the Solicitor
General to be telling us that case is not before the
Court today.
MR. COOPER: Forgive me, Justice Ginsburg.
The case of -- what case isn't before the Court?
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I think it was McLaughlin
v. Florida.
MR. COOPER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It was cohabitation of
people of different races.
MR. COOPER: Certainly.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: And the Court took that
case and waited to reach the marriage case.
MR. COOPER: It's -- yes, Your Honor. And
well, forgive me, Your Honor. I'm not sure -- I'm not
sure I'm following the Court's question.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: I may -- my memory may be
wrong, but I think the case was that people of different
races were arrested and charged with the crime of
interracial cohabitation. And the Court said that that
was invalid.
MR. COOPER: Yes.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Unlawful.
MR. COOPER: Yes. Thank you, Your Honor.
Forgive me. And -- you know, I'm glad that counsel for
the Respondents mentioned the Loving case because what
this Court -- what this Court ultimately said was
patently obvious, is that the colors of the skin of the
spouses is irrelevant to any legitimate purpose, no more
so than their hair colors, any legitimate purpose of
marriage, that interracial couples and same-race couples
are similarly situated in every respect with respect to
any legitimate purpose of marriage.
That's what this question really boils down
here, whether or not it can be said that for every
legitimate purpose of marriage, are opposite-sex couples
and same-sex couples indistinguishable?
Indistinguishable. And with all due respect to counsel
and to the Respondents, that is not a hard question.
If, in fact, it is true, as the people of
California believe that it still is true, that the
natural procreative capacity of opposite-sex couples
continues to pose vitally important benefits and risks
to society and that's why marriage itself is the
institution that society has always used to regulate
those heterosexual, procreative -- procreative
relationships.
Counsel -- the Solicitor General has said
that -- that the ban that the proposition erects in
California is permanent. Well, it's -- certainly that
is not the view of the Respondents and what we read
every day. This is not an issue that is now at rest in
the State of California, regardless -- well, unless this
Court essentially puts it to rest. That democratic
debate, which is roiling throughout this country, will
definitely be coming back to California.
It is an agonizingly difficult, for many
people, political question. We would submit to you that
that question is properly decided by the people
themselves.
Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you, counsel,
counsel.
The case is submitted.
(Whereupon, at 11:27 a.m., the case in the
above-entitled matter was submitted.)
59:20 adoption 19:12 allowing 23:1,3 appointment assessment
44:23 53:5 allows 30:1 59:2 appoints 31:12 assign 5:12,21
69:12 adoptions 43:25 amended 57:12 arbitrarily 16:3 assistive 53:6
adults 24:5 amendment 9:18 argued 65:8 36:17 42:15
47:3 advanced 61:2 amicus 1:21 2:10 43:16 44:16 assuming 47:2
25:11 amorphous 2:2,5,8,12 3:3,6 34:13
adverse 18:17 answer 19:21,21 16:15 22:23,24 attention 64:16
age 24:12,18,22 answering 34:10 42:21 50:6,24 33:24
26:11,14 47:2,5 37:16 53:11,17 54:17 11:15
age-old 12:3 anybody 5:22 59:15,16 61:1 6:18 8:17 65:18
12:10 69:3 appeal 10:3 arguments 11:6 await 19:5
agreed 13:22 1:14 53:18 54:11,19
appellate 13:20 arrested 67:15 B
18:7
44:10 applies 20:13 articulating 58:1 65:18 66:6 69:2
64:5
53:12 21:1 58:13 asked 25:23 background 7:11
57:3,11 65:23 46:21 52:11 Baker 12:14,17
apply 23:17,19 asking 26:1 48:6 12:24 13:2
33:6 41:12 35:10 46:6 18:19 29:16
books 57:25 capricious 16:9 68:21 child-rearing
booth 18:19 carefully 5:19 certiorari 65:16 43:25 44:24
39:10 Breyer 10:5,11 27:17,21 28:2 changed 12:4 64:12
42:12 22:21 23:12,16 30:13 31:8,24 changes 40:14 circumstances
50:21 35:8,22 53:11 32:4,4 33:14 45:12 8:14
53:13,14 54:10 37:17 39:19 changing 12:1,1 circumvent 33:7
48:14 brief 11:1 21:18 40:24 41:22 characteristic citizen 5:12,17
29:14 34:11 42:11,21 43:6 40:3 5:25 6:20 7:7
52:2 52:8 54:2 44:11 45:3,21 42:13,14 citizenry 4:11
61:5 briefed 51:19 46:11,12,12 charged 67:15 citizens 6:22
briefing 50:22 48:2,6,13,16 2:3,13 3:6 64:2 39:10 40:16
3:7 bring 6:10,10 54:22,23 55:8 6:2,5,23,24 59:2 63:19
33:24,25 brings 52:10 55:10 56:6 63:7 11:19 22:17 claim 55:16
44:2 64:3 61:24 63:21,22,23 26:20 28:8,10 claims 6:10
19:1 brought 3:23 65:15 66:19,23 29:9 31:19 36:8 14:22 15:11,14
56:16 9:18 27:11 67:1,1,9,9,14 36:25 37:16,19 15:23 28:23
building 56:8 67:22 69:10,11 37:23 40:23 39:10 42:12
43:14,18 burdens 14:11 54:9 53:13 58:16 13:14,20,23
button 19:5 57:6 casinos 43:7 59:6,23 60:6,10 14:4,5 41:7
57:6 65:19 cause 17:17 61:9,12 62:1 classifications
50:24 C cautious 56:4 20:7 27:9 45:10 43:22
65:7 C 2:1 3:1 57:23 58:5 45:11 47:2,4,10 Clause 39:1
51:1 calculus 61:7 cert 65:10,12 childbirth 28:2 Clauses 38:5
67:5,16 considerable 12:25 13:15,18 24:23 37:7 critical 45:21
43:19,20 considerations 19:8,23 20:2,5 60:4,7,8 61:16 50:7
64:16 63:9 20:8,19,25 21:3 61:17,20 62:3 curious 38:12
46:6 consistent 15:15 26:1,8,12,15 35:9 50:18 cycle 40:8
32:20 36:20 63:25 64:2,4,7 4:17 5:16 6:8 data 22:3,5,10
9:18 12:12 16:20 17:20,21 13:21 17:21 days 37:20
constitutionality costs 59:18 30:11 32:12,12 27:25
28:6 67:21 68:9,19 37:21,25 38:2,3 debated 21:25
14:8 27:23 28:5 counterintuitive 39:21 40:17 decide 5:24
47:12 53:1 country 12:1,2 46:15 47:7 48:3 41:22 47:24
controversy 26:16 27:4,5 66:24 67:1,8,16 40:16,17,18,20
Cooper 1:15 2:3 couples 12:4 Court's 8:25 47:7 48:25 49:2
3:17 4:1,13 5:1 15:6 16:16,17 49:8 52:24 54:9 decides 38:3,10
6:4,13 7:8,15 17:17,23 18:2 create 7:13 16:7 14:14 37:17,21
8:5,9,12,23 9:8 19:11,12,17 29:14 39:8 41:1,15
44:3 48:3 63:4 dismiss 66:4 effectively 10:2 ESQ 1:15,17,19
56:18 denying 14:10,13 dismissal 13:2 effects 54:21 2:3,6,9,13
66:2 44:17 dismissed 12:15 55:25,25 56:1 essential 9:20
44:19,25 depleted 32:14 32:24 62:6 essentially 65:11
36:21 47:16,17 distinctions either 4:25 26:24 68:25
5:2,6,12 11:17 26:23 distinguishes 7:5 30:14 33:20 62:10
9:16 11:15 desire 13:12 22:25 41:3 else's 62:10 evidence 48:7,22
30:16 desires 24:5 distinguishing emotional 24:5 61:17
32:23 33:3 desk 25:16 42:13 46:5 evolutionary
34:14 destination 48:9 district 48:3 emphasized 28:3 40:8
destroyed 28:4 64:17 46:4 exacting 51:24
developed 37:3,6 61:17 enactments 6:17 33:16 42:9
52:21 28:25 30:2 32:4 DONALD 1:19 35:5 example 32:5,21
40:24 44:13 2:9 50:6 enforced 7:14 43:6 46:13
13:8,10 difficult 12:11 68:9 enormous 36:5 37:2 38:6 39:9
16:12 13:16 69:3 duty 7:25 8:21 ensure 9:23 exclusion 59:11
45:12,17 diminished 32:15 9:2 34:12 35:25 entire 52:8 60:16
19:13 earnest 12:2 57:23,24 59:10 exist 46:24
60:5 discrimination effect 17:18 20:1 55:22,23 existence 66:14
64:21 32:20,20 35:3 forth 11:7 29:13 39:9 44:4 47:13 40:13 62:22
feel 10:17 11:3 44:22 55:18,22 60:4 30:9 55:21
44:6 fees 31:18 33:24 5:25 9:18 11:13 gays 28:21 37:17 gives 42:16
25:18 33:21 57:1 65:5 gendered 13:24 48:8,14 51:1
8:10,13,20 9:1 free 11:20 15:24 13:23 34:15 38:9 43:2
65:21 first 12:13 18:11 57:5 64:9 57:15,18 58:6 government 9:5
51:23 56:12 full 21:19,19 58:10,21 59:4,7 9:6 14:12 15:24
flag 51:23 41:6 43:21,23 68:19 governor 30:6,19
62:5 66:12 59:22 64:20 56:22 61:8 66:7 65:16
following 67:12 18:21 getting 4:7 46:10 48:18,20 58:14
10:14 51:2 gambling 43:7 24:11 29:19 guess 4:23 6:13
13:6,21 former 62:21 gay 23:2,9,22 35:12,17 39:3 13:23 32:11
62:16 37:3 identify 6:19 inconsistent 18:20,24 23:14
1:3 3:4 III 6:9 8:24 29:14 independent intends 27:5
60:7 14:10 37:5 65:6 individual 7:17 15:1,2,3 16:19
35:3 4:14 5:1,7,23 16:9 individuals 8:2 27:3,4 31:14
13:3,15,18 impacts 14:4 47:18 49:22 55:20 57:25
18:1 16:21 17:5,11 implications infertile 24:23 45:16 46:22
62:2 18:4,16,25 18:23 26:3 interests 6:1,16
62:20 22:3,9 23:15,24 important 8:22 inheritance 30:7 37:9,10,12
61:20 25:10 26:1,15 28:18,22 47:19 initiative 3:20 53:7 54:18 55:5
55:1 67:11,20 65:21,25 initiatives 3:25 interracial 38:21
honoring 66:12 impression 12:14 56:24 45:23 49:11,12
68:17 hypothetical incidents 28:4 inmates 27:24,25 67:17
19:1 justified 54:3 late 65:9,10 letting 64:21,21 11:1 25:12 41:6
K 29:8 31:10 39:4 level 46:10 male 27:24
5:20 6:24 16:13 law 4:10 5:5 7:3 42:15 man 25:3
24:8,16 25:1,14 30:6,17 32:24 lie 10:14,16 47:24
21:25 26:13,21 34:16 35:11,11 light 56:4 58:3 marital 25:9
47:8 Kagan's 18:8 35:14,14 38:3 59:4 26:16 27:2,2,7
49:1,5 Karcher 5:8 7:18 38:10,11,12,18 limit 65:22,25 27:7
57:8 64:21 keep 37:5 63:25 40:25 49:15 limitations 13:1 marriage 3:13,13
Kennedy 6:23 52:3,5 53:2,3 limited 30:23 12:3 13:8,24
47:9 22:12 29:17 laws 7:14 22:7 line 32:17 46:21 17:16,22,23
49:6 42:20 48:5,12 47:1 50:12 litigated 54:23 18:2,12 19:11
64:25 48:24 49:14,18 52:19 63:19 litigation 51:9 20:14 21:6 22:6
10:15,16 12:19 55:9,10 locked 27:13 27:1,2 28:1,4,6
19:9,20,21 56:23 58:23 look 22:25 23:13 42:16 43:11,15
30:9 64:12 28:16 29:7 32:4 21:15,15 36:5 looked 43:5 49:2 46:3,8,14,16
40:10 41:16,21 legislation 9:5 loses 29:24 55:19,25 56:1,5
66:1 53:24 54:5,10 57:8,20 lot 25:3 53:18 58:15,19 59:3
29:11,13 67:21 legitimate 22:16 lots 23:6 61:21,24,25
knowing 18:21 67:25 68:1,4,7 Loving 13:3 62:14 64:14
L
labeling 28:24 lesbians 28:21 M 1:6 47:8 49:12
minute 40:21 48:4,25 49:1 old 19:2 49:15 17:17 18:2 68:7
40:18,22 minutes 64:1 64:12 oldest 19:3 68:13
44:9 missing 35:19,20 norm 25:9 26:16 Olson 1:17 2:6 Optical 52:2
46:10 35:22,23 27:3 28:11,12,14 opticians 52:4
54:1 moment 28:17 normal 8:13 29:2,5,12 30:4 options 31:24
62:20 66:7 57:20 30:15,22 31:7 optometrists
27:14,15 monogamy 25:10 46:25 32:16 33:16 oral 1:11 2:2,5,8
59:20,20 morning 3:4 34:9,17,24 35:1 3:6 28:12 50:6
mother 27:10 O 35:21,23 36:10 orientation 14:6
move 36:9 8:13 26:17 39:23 40:1,7,11 Orleans 43:6
46:18 30:9 41:18,23 42:5 41:20 55:7
69:12 N observation 13:4 42:10 43:5,13 58:23 61:4
67:2 narrower 41:15 occurring 16:8 48:19 49:1,17 outside 14:7,8
53:19 nationwide 20:12 offer 14:16 50:21 once 4:8 17:19 overbearing 47:3
65:10,11 natural 68:13 offered 52:21 48:14 50:2 overcome 54:12
46:17 necessarily 8:4 officer 8:16 one-way 29:20 27:21
necessary 46:2 30:24 34:19 29:25
29:18 32:5 56:4 59:16 officers 30:2,9 open 31:22 42:24 P 3:1
36:11 needs 24:5 official 3:19 4:17 55:7,9,10 58:23 pact 53:24 62:14
54:8 neither 25:12 4:18,19 5:18 59:12 60:13 pacts 62:17
21:11 43:6 Oh 22:20 37:19 opposed 35:14 part 36:16,24
29:3 36:9 newer 56:19 okay 6:5 29:1 opposite 16:16 49:25 61:7
newness 56:4 41:16 42:4 52:5 particular 5:10
22:11 38:6 52:9 polar 52:5 primarily 10:8 profound 18:23
64:16 43:8,9 political 21:24 principal 16:15 prohibit 38:21
51:13 56:6 person 12:9 polygamy 47:7 principle 54:10 prohibiting 43:9
personal 8:8 posed 63:7 prison 27:13,22 49:11
personalized 16:22 20:16 privacy 25:21 47:13
51:5,25 52:18 59:1,8 60:1 probing 15:9 48:18,20 64:9
9:4,6,7,10 phones 56:19 possibly 12:9 proceed 6:7 11:12 29:18
10:19 11:3 phrased 42:6 18:22 66:11 11:20 16:2 30:12 31:25
16:4 23:6 pick 17:13 potential 55:25 process 4:19 33:19,21,21
25:16 picking 47:18 56:1 9:19,21,23,25 proposed 8:2
30:16 place 55:9 65:20 powers 32:15,19 10:4,18,21 proposition 3:20
32:1,7 Plaintiffs 15:16 preceded 66:19 11:14,17 21:24 28:19 32:22
33:2,6 15:20 18:11 precedential 30:3 33:2,6 33:9,10 37:20
35:9 37:3 33:13 13:1 34:18,22 38:5 40:20,24 45:15
44:1,24 play 48:8 precious 9:22 51:4 57:9,20 50:11 51:25
50:2 please 3:9 22:19 precise 15:8 procreate 16:17 52:3,21 56:2,16
65:18 28:15 50:10 precisely 23:1 procreation 15:4 57:5 58:2 61:19
67:6,14 plebiscite 31:6 33:14 16:19 23:3,14 61:23 68:20
69:4,5 podium 63:5 prefer 31:22 23:21 24:11,19 propositions
points 18:10 preserving 66:14 professional prove 20:21
questions 47:8 real-world 18:13 reiterate 17:20 41:4 43:22,23
10:2,7 46:2,3 59:13 59:22 68:3,9
11:4,16 R reasonable 17:6 relationships respectfully
56:25 R 3:1 37:24 22:9 28:25 49:20 58:10
68:1,4,7 racial 65:1 22:19 64:2 remain 31:22 1:18,21 2:7,11
raise 38:17 recognition remarked 3:11 28:13 50:8
24:4 44:6 recognizing represent 5:25 11:15
rare 24:22 record 54:22 36:3 4:21 8:1,18
22:13 52:2 redefine 19:10 3:21 7:20 responsible 15:3
rationale 42:22 redefining 17:7 10:25 rest 58:4 59:24
7:15 8:7 rationalization 21:6 23:25 reproduction restrictions
13:6 43:9 redefinition 53:6 46:23,24
15:8,23 rationally 22:16 18:24 64:14 require 54:9 result 13:11 51:9
17:21,21 reach 42:22 67:9 referendums required 7:4 review 20:22
20:18 read 11:6 45:25 56:24 41:24 58:19,22 22:13 52:2
28:17 57:13 68:22 referring 27:16 60:1 rhetorical 38:20
34:18 reading 16:14 refocus 24:2,3 requirements right 5:7 7:11
real 59:18 62:11 refused 11:17 8:21 9:22 14:18 20:8
41:9 62:11,12,19 refusing 10:3 requires 51:25 27:14,15 36:13
48:16 66:2 regard 14:16 52:24 36:13,14,15,16
51:17 reality 53:9 regardless 16:4 reserve 27:6 36:16,20,24
56:22 really 10:17,18 68:24 resonates 49:25 37:1,22 38:7,8
60:13 11:3,4,7 24:10 register 7:5 resources 32:6,8 38:11 40:18
67:12 25:1 42:20 48:6 regulate 68:16 32:8 41:6 42:14,19
69:4,5 51:5 52:5 53:19 regulating 16:19 respect 7:11 15:4 43:23 44:18
realm 63:7 regulation 27:25 27:20 30:5 34:7 46:23 47:15
55:16 62:2,5 66:3,13 14:2 15:19 17:6 61:2 standard 15:12
60:7,8 68:8 37:9 43:11 society 3:13 17:9 54:8
satisfy 32:2 66:22 27:3 47:20 56:9 standards 36:2
53:4 55:13 saying 7:7 11:23 separate 7:13 68:15,16 3:25 6:10,15,15
14:22 15:1 17:1 38:23 41:25 society's 15:2 28:17 29:14
60:11 23:9 45:15 separation 32:19 25:6,7 36:13 31:21 32:9,23
6:2,5 35:8 52:8 65:23 37:6 19:14 start 32:22
22:17 Scalia 4:23 5:2,5 serves 37:8 Solicitor 1:19 started 62:25
28:8,11 8:6 19:8,20,25 set 29:13 65:23 66:7,22 starting 50:14
31:19 20:11 25:15,20 sets 34:11 68:19 States 1:1,12,21
37:19 26:4 31:4,15 sever 24:1 somebody 27:13 2:10 10:6,6,13
40:23 38:8,24 39:5,12 sex 16:16 45:10 12:7,23 19:16
46:1 39:18,20,24 sexes 23:4 somewhat 61:14 20:13,15 21:2
53:13 40:5,9,13 41:11 sexual 14:6,9 sorry 6:3 26:18 30:2 32:18
59:6,23 41:16,19,20 15:10 40:2,19 26:20,22 41:12 49:13,16
61:9,12 42:4,8 58:4,7 49:22 sort 14:14 16:24 50:7 52:8,9,9
63:24 69:8 58:11 59:1 65:9 short 58:15 44:1 55:12 58:13,13
49:3,4 schools 38:23 shown 62:2 9:3,9 14:7,18 62:15,17 63:11
54:9 55:1 similar 3:10 55:11 60:19 8:15 15:2 16:18
13:9 14:4 security 27:25 single 64:17,17 40:7 64:12 41:7,9 45:24
16:16,18 see 17:15 40:5 single-sex 19:15 specifically 9:13 46:18 47:15,20
17:2,23 56:21 59:4 situated 15:7 44:7 statute 9:17,17
60:14 61:14 16:10,17 68:3 specificity 54:5 29:22,22 33:3
21:18 seeing 4:7 10:8 situation 34:16 specify 9:4 32:13 35:5,5
31:23 27:3,4 55:5,17 58:25 spend 28:16 31:8 step 5:25 11:13
43:15,18 seen 13:6 situations 35:16 spirituality 42:15 56:17 63:15
55:25 56:1 segregation 65:1 60:18 spouses 67:25 65:18 66:6
58:19 selecting 47:15 skin 67:24 stabilizing 60:5 steps 63:11
60:7 Senate 26:5 Skinner 46:12 61:23 62:8 sterile 23:4
sense 7:6 13:24 social 18:20,24 stand 55:21 stigmatizing
24:7,8,9 25:15 tell 7:10 41:21 54:9,19 55:8,15 18:2 24:2,24
Supreme 1:1,12 term 13:25 63:16,25 64:6 treating 14:21
12:18 30:5,11 11:18 67:2,14 trial 48:21,21
16:7 38:4,10 39:8,21 tested 53:8 third 59:13 53:17 59:10
49:20 40:17,25 testified 44:7 thoroughly 51:19 68:11,12
sure 27:17 31:25 tests 15:13 65:7 truth 3:12 11:24
61:11 67:11,12 18:9 28:8,10,14 33:17,18 34:5 try 54:25 60:21
25:20 67:20 69:7,8 thoughtful 12:9 Tuesday 1:9
21:10 15:14 16:5 1:17 2:6 28:12 thrust 16:22 56:15
48:16 suspicious 33:8 theory 6:25 Thurmond 26:4 Turner 27:17,21
sustained 22:14 thing 14:22 19:9 tie 51:8 51:21 63:8
63:10 34:19 56:15 59:21 22:18,19 23:23 ultimately 67:23
49:9 T things 19:10 35:3 38:1,16,25 4:16
table 66:15 63:25 64:22 12:15
50:19 53:19 10:6,12 12:24 42:11 50:22 49:9,10
taken 58:12 19:4,20 21:9,21 told 33:13 38:22 39:6,6,13
takes 11:1 34:8 27:19 29:4,9,12 51:20 39:25 41:12,17
talks 43:25 38:25 39:5 42:6 tool 23:21 undefended
50:8 61:13 taxes 47:10 50:13,23 51:3 traditional 13:7 underlies 32:19
16:14 vindicate 10:8,18 18:22 21:4 23:1 York's 3:10 64 2:14
52:7,22 10:20 11:4 27:20,20 30:4
59:16 violation 51:23 30:12 42:7 Z 7
66:19 52:12
8
64:1 8 3:20 28:19
vision 23:2 weigh 21:12
1:13 3:2 37:20 40:20,24
69:11 45:15 50:11
48:21 51:25 52:3,21
63:19 vivid 15:16 44:16 54:15,16
1:4 3:4 56:2,16 57:5
37:20 58:2 61:19,23
59:2 voice 21:16,20 we've 6:11 46:3
49:12
38:14
38:14
10:13 53:20
50:7 52:8 wholeheartedly
64:8
60:10,14 willing 59:23 1967 49:10 61:1
1971 12:18,23
wonderful 48:9 2000 56:13
13:2 walls 36:12 words 17:1 62:13 2013 1:9
67:3 walls-off 28:21 work 17:18 25 33:20
2:7
8:15 11:19 12:15 worthy 64:15
31:5 34:14 wrestle 13:17 3 2:4
52:6,16 40:21 41:16 writ 66:4 37,000 44:6 62:5
55:14 49:8 50:25 55:2 write 41:15 62:13
58:6 55:2,24 56:17 wrong 45:24 4
59:4,7 58:16,17 59:19 67:14 40 10:6
63:10 40,000 21:17
62:4 wants 29:15,18 X
63:14,20 42:22 x 1:2,7 5
68:22 Washington 1:8 years 19:2 21:12 55 24:13,18,22
15:10 waters 48:8 49:9 42:4 49:14 55-year-old 27:3
49:10 56:11 65:1,5
