IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
DENNIS HOLLINGSWORTH, ET AL., :
Petitioners : No. 12-144
v. :
KRISTIN M. PERRY, ET AL. :
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - x
Washington, D.C.
Tuesday, March 26, 2013
The above-entitled matter came on for oral
argument before the Supreme Court of the United States
at 10:07 a.m.
APPEARANCES:
CHARLES J. COOPER, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Petitioners.
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ., Washington, D.C.; on behalf of
Respondents.
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ., Solicitor General,
Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.; for United
States, as amicus curiae, supporting Respondents.
C O N T E N T S
ORAL ARGUMENT OF PAGE
CHARLES J. COOPER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 3
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
THEODORE B. OLSON, ESQ.
On behalf of the Respondents 28
ORAL ARGUMENT OF
DONALD B. VERRILLI, JR., ESQ.
For United States, as amicus curiae,
supporting Respondents 50
REBUTTAL ARGUMENT OF
CHARLES J. COOPER, ESQ.
On behalf of the Petitioners 64
P R O C E E D I N G S
(10:07 a.m.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: We'll hear argument
this morning in Case 12-144, Hollingsworth v. Perry.
Mr. Cooper?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF CHARLES J. COOPER
ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONERS
MR. COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
New York's highest court, in a case similar
to this one, remarked that until quite recently, it was
an accepted truth for almost everyone who ever lived in
any society in which marriage existed. Marriage -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Cooper, we have
jurisdictional and merits issues here. Maybe it'd be
best if you could begin with the standing issue.
MR. COOPER: I'd be happy to,
Mr. Chief Justice.
Your Honor, the official proponents of
Proposition 8, the initiative, have standing to defend
that measure before this Court as representatives of the
people and the State of California to defend the
validity of a measure that they brought forward.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Have we ever granted
standing to proponents of ballot initiatives?
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor, the Court has
not done that, but the Court has never had before it a
clear expression from a unanimous State's high court
that -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Well, this is -- this
is -- the concern is certainly, the proponents are
interested in getting it on the ballot and seeing that
all of the proper procedures are followed, but once it's
passed, they have no proprietary interest in it. It's
law for them just as it is for everyone else. So how
are they distinguishable from the California citizenry
in general?
MR. COOPER: They're distinguishable, Your
Honor, because the Constitution of the State of
California and its election code provide, according to
the unanimous interpretation of the California Supreme
Court, that the official proponents, in addition to the
other official responsibilities and authorities that
they have in the initiative process, that those official
proponents also have the authority and the
responsibility to defend the validity of that
initiative -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I guess the attorney
general of this State doesn't have any proprietary
interest either, does he?
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor, nor did -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But -- but he can defend
it, can't he -
MR. COOPER: -- nor did -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- because the law says he
can defend it.
MR. COOPER: That's right, Your Honor. Nor
did the legislative leaders in the Karcher case have -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Could the State -
MR. COOPER: -- any particular enforcement -
JUSTICE KAGAN: -- could -- could the State
assign to any citizen the rights to defend a judgment of
this kind?
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, the Chief -- the
Chief Justice and Justice Kagan have given a proper
hypothetical to test your theory. But in this case the
proponents, number one, must give their official
address, they must pay money, and they must all act in
unison under California law. So these five proponents
were required at all times to act in unison, so that
distinguishes -- and to register and to pay money for
the -- so in that sense it's different from simply
saying any citizen.
MR. COOPER: But of course it is, and I
think the key -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: But can you tell me -
that's a factual background with respect to their right
to put the ballot initiative on the ballot, but how does
it create an injury to them separate from that of every
other taxpayer to have laws enforced?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, the -- the question
before the Court, I would submit, is not the injury to
the individual proponents, it's the injury to the State.
The -- the legislators in the Karcher case had no
individual particularized injury, and yet this Court
recognized they were proper representatives of the
State's interests -- the State's injury -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: At least one of the
amici have suggested that it seems counterintuitive to
think that the State is going to delegate to people who
don't have a fiduciary duty to them. That it's going to
And of course, if that kind of action is the
very kind that does not lie, well, then to say, but they
really feel it's important that the law be enforced,
they really want to vindicate the process, and these are
people of special interests. They -- we found the five
citizens who most strongly want to vindicate the
interest in the law being enforced and the process for
making the law be enforced, well, that won't distinguish
it from a public action.
But then you say, but also they are
representing the State. At this point, the Dellinger
brief which takes the other side of it is making a
strong argument, well, they aren't the State. They are
really no more than a group of five people who feel
really strongly that we should vindicate this public
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, certainly I
acknowledge the precedential limitations of a summary
dismissal. But Baker v. Nelson also came fairly fast on
the heels of the Loving decision. And, Your Honor, I
simply make the observation that it seems implausible in
the extreme, frankly, for nine justices to have -- to
have seen no substantial Federal question if it is true,
as the Respondents maintain, that the traditional
definition of marriage, insofar as -- insofar as it does
not include same-sex couples, insofar as it is a gender
definition, is irrational and can only be explained -
can only be explained, as a result of anti-gay malice
and a bare desire to harm.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Do you believe this can be
treated as a gender-based classification?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, I -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: It's a difficult question
that I've been trying to wrestle with it.
MR. COOPER: Yes, Your Honor. And we do
not. We do not think it is properly viewed as a
gender-based classification. Virtually every appellate
court, State and Federal, with one exception, Hawaii, in
a superseded the opinion, has agreed that it is not a
gender-based classification, but I guess it is gender
-based in the sense that marriage itself is a gendered
institution, a gendered term. And so in the same way
that fatherhood is gendered or motherhood is gendered,
it's gendered in that sense.
But we -- we agree that to the extent that
the classification impacts, as it clearly does, same-sex
couples, that -- that classification can be viewed as
being one of sexual orientation rather than -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Outside of the -
outside of the marriage context, can you think of any
other rational basis, reason for a State using sexual
orientation as a factor in denying homosexuals benefits
or imposing burdens on them? Is there any other
rational decision-making that the government could make?
Denying them a job, not granting them benefits of some
sort, any other decision?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, I cannot. I do not
have any -- anything to offer you in that regard. I
think marriage is -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: All right. If that -
if that is true, then why aren't they a class? If
they're a class that makes any other discrimination
improper, irrational, then why aren't we treating them
as a class for this one thing? Are you saying that the
interest of marriage is so much more compelling than any
other interest as they could have?
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor, we certainly
are not. We -- we are saying the interest in marriage
and the -- and the State's interest and society's
interest in what we have framed as responsible pro -
procreation is -- is vital, but at bottom, with respect
to those interests, our submission is that same-sex
couples and opposite-sex couples are simply not
similarly situated.
But to come back to your precise question, I
think, Justice Sotomayor, you're -- you're probing into
whether or not sexual orientation ought to be viewed as
a quasi-suspect or suspect class, and our position is
that it does not qualify under this Court's standard
and -- and traditional tests for identifying
suspectedness. The -- the class itself is -- is quite
amorphous. It defies consistent definition as -- as the
Plaintiffs' own experts were -- were quite vivid on.
It -- it does not -- it -- it does not qualify as an
accident of birth, immutability in that -- in that
sense.
Again, the Plaintiffs -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So you -- so what -- I
don't quite understand it. If you're not dealing with
this as a class question, then why would you say that
the government is not free to discriminate against them?
MR. COOPER: Well, Your Honor, I would think
that -- that -- I think it's a -- it's a very different
question whether or not the government can proceed
arbitrarily and irrationally with respect to any group
of people, regardless of whether or not they qualify
under this Court's traditional test for suspectedness.
And -- and the hypothetical I understood you to be
offering, I would submit would create -- it would -
unless there's something that -- that is not occurring
to me immediately, an arbitrary and capricious
distinction among similarly situated individuals,
that -- that is not what we think is at the -- at the
root of the traditional definition of marriage.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Mr. Cooper, could I just
understand your argument. As -- in reading the briefs,
it seems as though your principal argument is that
same-sex and opposite -- sex couples are not similarly
situated because opposite-sex couples can procreate,
same-sex couples cannot, and the State's principal
interest in marriage is in regulating procreation. Is
that basically correct?
MR. COOPER: I -- Your Honor, that's the
essential thrust of our -- our position, yes.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Is -- is there -- so you
have sort of a reason for not including same-sex
couples. Is there any reason that you have for
excluding them? In other words, you're saying, well, if
we allow same-sex couples to marry, it doesn't serve the
State's interest. But do you go further and say that it
harms any State interest?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, we -- we go further
in -- in the sense that it is reasonable to be very
concerned that redefining marriage to -- as a genderless
institution could well lead over time to harms to that
institution and to the interests that society has
always -- has -- has always used that institution to
address. But, Your Honor, I -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, could you explain that
a little bit to me, just because I did not pick this up
in your briefs.
What harm you see happening and when and how
and -- what -- what harm to the institution of marriage
or to opposite-sex couples, how does this cause and
effect work?
MR. COOPER: Once again, I -- I would
reiterate that we don't believe that's the correct legal
question before the Court, and that the correct question
is whether or not redefining marriage to include
same-sex couples would advance the interests of marriage
as a -
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, then are -- are you
conceding the point that there is no harm or denigration
to traditional opposite-sex marriage couples? So you're
conceding that.
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor, no. I'm not
conceding that.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: Well, but, then it -- then
it seems to me that you should have to address Justice
Kagan's question.
MR. COOPER: Thank you, Justice Kennedy. I
have two points to make on them.
The first one is this, the Plaintiffs'
expert acknowledged that redefining marriage will have
real-world consequences, and that it is impossible for
anyone to foresee the future accurately enough to know
exactly what those real-world consequences would be.
And among those real-world consequences, Your Honor, we
would suggest are adverse consequences.
But consider the California voter, in 2008,
in the ballot booth, with the question before her
whether or not this age-old bedrock social institution
should be fundamentally redefined, and knowing that
there's no way that she or anyone else could possibly
know what the long-term implications of a profound
redefinition of a bedrock social institution would be.
That is reason enough, Your Honor, that would hardly be
irrational for that voter to say, I believe that this
experiment, which is now only fairly four years old,
even in Massachusetts, the oldest State that is
conducting it, to say, I think it better for California
to hit the pause button and await additional information
from the jurisdictions where this experiment is still
maturing.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Mr. Cooper, let me -- let
me give you one -- one concrete thing. I don't know why
you don't mention some concrete things. If you redefine
marriage to include same-sex couples, you must -- you
must permit adoption by same-sex couples, and there's -
there's considerable disagreement among -- among
sociologists as to what the consequences of raising a
child in a -- in a single-sex family, whether that is
harmful to the child or not. Some States do not -- do
not permit adoption by same-sex couples for that reason.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: California -- no,
California does.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I don't think we know the
answer to that. Do you know the answer to that, whether
it -- whether it harms or helps the child?
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor. And there's -
there's -
JUSTICE SCALIA: But that's a possible
deleterious effect, isn't it?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, it -- it is
certainly among the -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: It wouldn't be in
California, Mr. Cooper, because that's not an issue, is
it? In California, you can have same-sex couples
adopting a child.
MR. COOPER: That's right, Your Honor. That
is true. And -- but -- but, Your Honor, here's -
here's the point -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I -- it's true, but
irrelevant. They're arguing for a nationwide rule which
applies to States other than California, that every
State must allow marriage by same-sex couples. And so
even though States that believe it is harmful -- and I
take no position on whether it's harmful or not, but it
is certainly true that -- that there's no scientific
answer to that question at this point in time.
MR. COOPER: And -- and that, Your Honor, is
the point I am trying to make, and it is the
Respondents' responsibility to prove, under rational
basis review, not only that -- that there clearly will
be no harm, but that it's beyond debate that there will
be no harm.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Cooper, you are
defending -- you are opposing a judgment that applies to
California only, not to all of the States.
MR. COOPER: That's true, Your Honor. And
if there were a way to -- to cabin the arguments that
are being presented to you to California, then the
concerns about redefining marriage in -- in California
could be confined to California, but they cannot, Your
Honor.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: I -- I think there's -
there's substantial -- that there's substance to the
point that sociological information is new. We have
five years of information to weigh against 2,000 years
of history or more.
On the other hand, there is an immediate
legal injury or legal -- what could be a legal injury,
and that's the voice of these children. There are some
40,000 children in California, according to the Red
Brief, that live with same-sex parents, and they want
their parents to have full recognition and full status.
The voice of those children is important in this case,
don't you think?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, I certainly would
not dispute the importance of that consideration. That
consideration especially in the political process where
this issue is being debated and will continue to be
debated, certainly, in California. It's being debated
elsewhere. But on that -- on that specific question,
Your Honor, there -- there simply is no data.
In fact, their expert agreed there is no
data, no study, even, that would examine whether or not
there is any incremental beneficial effect from marriage
over and above the domestic partnership laws that were
enacted by the State of California to recognize,
support, and honor same-sex relationships and their
families. There is simply no data at all that would -
that would permit one to draw -- draw that conclusion.
I would recall, Justice Kennedy, the point
made in Romer, that under a rational basis of review,
the provision will be sustained even if it operates to
the disadvantage of a group, if it is -- if it otherwise
advances rationally a legitimate State interest.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Cooper, we will
afford you more time. You shouldn't worry about losing
your rebuttal time, but please continue on.
MR. COOPER: Oh -
JUSTICE BREYER: As long as you are on that,
then I would like to ask you this, assume you could
distinguish California, suppose we accept your argument
or accept Justice Scalia's version of your argument and
that distinguishes California. Now, let's look at
California. What precisely is the way in which allowing
gay couples to marry would interfere with the vision of
marriage, as procreation of children, that allowing
sterile companies -- couples of different sexes to marry
would not?
I mean, there are lots of people who get
married who can't have children. To take a State that
does allow adoption and say -- there, what is the
justification for saying no gay marriage? Certainly not
the one you said, is it?
MR. COOPER: You're -
JUSTICE BREYER: Am I not clear?
Look, you said that the problem is marriage
as an institution that furthers procreation.
MR. COOPER: Yes, Your Honor.
JUSTICE BREYER: And the reason there was
adoption, but that doesn't apply to California. So
imagine I wall off California and I'm looking just
there, where you say that doesn't apply. Now, what
happens to your argument about the institution of
marriage as a tool towards procreation? Given the fact
that, in California, too, couples that aren't gay, but
can't have children get married all the time.
MR. COOPER: Yes, Your Honor. The concern
is that redefining marriage as a genderless institution
will sever its abiding connection to its historic
traditional procreative purposes and it will refocus,
refocus the purpose of marriage and the definition of
marriage away from the raising of children and to the
emotional needs and desires of adults -- of adult
couples.
Suppose, in turn -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, suppose a State
said -- Mr. Cooper, suppose a State said that because we
think that the focus of marriage really should be on
procreation, we are not going to give marriage licenses
anymore to any couple where both people are over the age
of 55. Would that be constitutional?
MR. COOPER: No, Your Honor, it would not be
constitutional.
JUSTICE KAGAN: Because that's the same
State interest, I would think, you know. If you are
over the age of 55, you don't help us serve the
government's interest in regulating procreation through
marriage. So why is that different?
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, even with respect
to couples over the age of 55, it is very rare that both
couples -- both parties to the couple are infertile, and
the traditional -
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE KAGAN: No, really, because if the
couple -- I can just assure you, if both the woman and
the man are over the age of 55, there are not a lot of
children coming out of that marriage.
(Laughter.)
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, society's -
society's interest in responsible procreation isn't just
with respect to the procreative capacities of the couple
itself. The marital norm, which imposes the -- the
obligations of fidelity and monogamy, Your Honor,
advances the interests in responsible procreation by
making it more likely that neither party, including the
fertile party to that -
JUSTICE KAGAN: Actually, I'm not even -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose we could have a
questionnaire at the marriage desk when people come in
to get the marriage -- you know, are you fertile or are
you not fertile?
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suspect this Court would
hold that to be an unconstitutional invasion of privacy,
don't you think?
JUSTICE KAGAN: Well, I just asked about
age. I didn't ask about anything else. That's not an
-- we ask about people's age all the time.
MR. COOPER: Your Honor, and even asking
about age, you would have to ask if both parties are
infertile. Again -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Strom Thurmond was -- was
not the chairman of the Senate committee when Justice
Kagan was confirmed.
(Laughter.)
MR. COOPER: Very few men -- very few men
outlive their own fertility. So I just -
JUSTICE KAGAN: A couple where both people
are over the age of 55 -
MR. COOPER: I -
JUSTICE KAGAN: A couple where both people
are over the age of 55.
MR. COOPER: And Your Honor, again, the
marital norm which imposes upon that couple the
obligation of fidelity -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry, where is
that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm sorry, maybe you
can finish your answer to Justice Kagan.
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: I'm sorry.
MR. COOPER: It's designed, Your Honor, to
make it less likely that either party to that -- to that
marriage will engage in irresponsible, procreative
conduct outside of that marriage. Outside of that
marriage. That's the marital -- that's the marital
norm. Society has an interest in seeing a 55-year-old
couple that is -- just as it has an interest of seeing
any heterosexual couple that intends to engage in a
prolonged period of cohabitation to reserve that until
they have made a marital commitment, a marital
commitment. So that, should that union produce any
offspring, it would be more likely that that child or
children will be raised by the mother and father who
brought them into the world.
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Mr. Cooper, we said that
somebody who is locked up in prison and who is not going
to get out has a right to marry -- has a fundamental
right to marry, no possibility of procreation.
MR. COOPER: Your Honor is referring, I'm
sure, to the Turner case, and -
JUSTICE GINSBURG: Yes.
MR. COOPER: -- I think that, with due
respect, Justice Ginsburg, way over-reads -- way
over-reads Turner against Safley. That was a case in
which the prison at issue -- and it was decided in the
specific context of a particular prison -- where there
were both female and male inmates, many of them minimum
security inmates. It was dealing with a regulation,
Your Honor, that had previously permitted marriage in
the case of pregnancy and childbirth.
The Court -- the Court here emphasized that,
among the incidents of marriage that are not destroyed
by that -- at least that prison context, was the
expectation of eventual consummation of the marriage and
legitimation of -- of the children. So that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Thank you,
Mr. Cooper.
MR. COOPER: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Olson?
ORAL ARGUMENT OF THEODORE B. OLSON
ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS
MR. OLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chief Justice,
and may it please the Court:
I know that you will want me to spend a
moment or two addressing the standing question, but
before I do that, I thought that it would be important
for this Court to have Proposition 8 put in context,
what it does.
It walls-off gays and lesbians from
marriage, the most important relation in life, according
to this Court, thus stigmatizing a class of Californians
based upon their status and labeling their most
cherished relationships as second-rate, different,
unequal, and not okay.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Mr. Olson, I cut off
your friend before he could get into the merits. So I
think it's only fair -
MR. OLSON: I was trying to avoid that, Your
Honor.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I know -
(Laughter.)
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Well, I think it's
only fair to treat you the same. Perhaps you could
address your jurisdictional argument?
MR. OLSON: Yes. I think that our
jurisdictional argument is, as we set forth in the
brief, California cannot create Article III standing by
designating whoever it wants to defend the State of
California in connection with the ballot.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: But this is not whoever it
wants. These are five proponents of -- of the measure
and if we were to accept your argument, it would give
the State a one-way ratchet. The State could go in and
make a defense, maybe a half-hearted defense of the
statute, and -- and then when the statute is held
invalid, simply -- simply leave. On the other hand,
if -- if the State loses, the State can appeal.
So this is a one-way ratchet as it favors
the State and allows governors and other constitutional
officers in different States to thwart the initiative
process.
MR. OLSON: That's the -- that's the way the
California Supreme Court saw it with respect to
California law. The governor and the Attorney General
of California are elected to act in the best interests
of the State of California. They made a professional
judgment given their obligations as officers of the
State of California.
The California Supreme Court has said that
proponents -- and by the way, only four of the five are
here. Dr. Tam withdrew from the case because of some -
many things he said during the election -- campaign.
JUSTICE ALITO: Well, Mr. Olson, is it your
position that the only people who could defend a
ballot -- a law that's adopted in California through the
ballot initiative are the Attorney General and the
governor, so that if the Attorney General and the
governor don't like the ballot initiative, it will go
undefended? Is that your position?
MR. OLSON: I don't -- I don't think it's
quite that limited. I think one of your colleagues
suggested that there could be an officer appointed.
There could be an appointee of the State of California
who had responsibility, fiduciary responsibility to the
State of California and the citizens of California, to
represent the State of California along -
JUSTICE SCALIA: Who -- who would appoint
him? The same governor that didn't want to defend the
plebiscite?
MR. OLSON: Well, that happens all the time.
As you recall in the case of -- well, let's not spend
too much time on independent counsel provisions, but -
(Laughter.)
MR. OLSON: The governor -- the government
of the State of California frequently appoints an
attorney where there's a perceived conflict of
interest -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I suppose -
MR. OLSON: -- and that person would have a
responsibility for the State and might have
responsibility for the attorneys' fees.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I suppose there
might be people out there with their own personal
standing, someone who performs marriages and would like
that to remain open to everyone but would prefer not to
perform same-sex marriages, or other people. We seem to
be addressing the case as if the only options are the
proponents here or the State. I'm not sure there aren't
other people out there with individual personalized
injury that would satisfy Article III.
MR. OLSON: There might well be in -- in a
different case. I don't know about this case. If there
was, for example, this was an initiative measure that
allocated certain resources of the State of California
and the people -- maybe it was a binary system of people
got resources and other people didn't get resources,
there could be standing. Someone would show actual
injury.
The point, I guess, at the bottom of this is
the Supreme Court -- this Court, decided in
Raines v. Byrd that Congress couldn't specify members of
Congress in that context even where the measure depleted
or diminished powers of Congress -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Olson, I think the
bottom line -
JUSTICE ALITO: The States are not bound by
the same separation of powers doctrine that underlies
the Federal Constitution. You couldn't have a Federal
initiative, for example. They're free of all that.
So start from the proposition that a State
has standing to defend the constitutionality of a State
law -- beyond dispute. The question then is, who
represents the State?
Now, in a State that has initiative, the
whole process would be defeated if the only people who
could defend the statute are the elected public
officials. The whole point -- you know this better than
I do because you're from California -- the whole point
of the initiative process was to allow the people to
circumvent public officials about whom they were
suspicious.
So if you reject that proposition, what is
left is the proposition that the State -- State law can
choose some other person, some other group to defend the
constitutionality of a State law. And the California
Supreme Court has told us that the Plaintiffs in this
case are precisely those people.
So how do you get around that?
MR. OLSON: The only -- that's exactly what
the California Supreme Court thought. The California
Supreme Court thought that it could decide that the
proponents, whoever they were, and this could be
25 years after the election, it could be one of the
proponents, it could be four of the proponents. They
could have an interest other than the State because they
have no fiduciary responsibility to the State. They may
be incurring attorneys' fees on behalf of the State or
on behalf of themselves, but they haven't been
appointed. They have no official responsibility to the
State.
And my only argument, and I know it's a
close one because California thinks that this is the
system. The California Supreme Court thought that this
was a system that would be a default system. I'm
suggesting from your decisions with respect to Article
III that that takes more than that under -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Olson, I think that
you're not answering the fundamental fear. And so -
and -- and the amici brief that sets forth this test of
fiduciary duty doesn't quite either.
The assumption is that there are not
executive officials who want to defend the law. They
don't like it. No one's going to do that. So how do
you get the law defended in that situation?
MR. OLSON: I don't have an answer to that
question unless there's an appointment process either
built into the system where it's an officer of
California or -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: So why -- why isn't this
viewed as an appointment process that the in -- the
ballot initiators have now become that body?
MR. OLSON: And that's the argument -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: That your argument -
MR. OLSON: That's our -- that's the
argument our opponents make. But it -- but it must be
said that it happens all of the time. That Federal
officials and State officials decide not to enforce a
statute, to enforce a statute in certain ways. We don't
then come in and decide that there's someone else ought
to be in court for every particular -
JUSTICE BREYER: What the brief says is, of
course, you can appoint people. It's not just that you
appoint them, it's that the State's interest when it
defends a law is the interest in executing the law of
the State. So all you have to do is give a person that
interest. But when a person has the interest of
defending this law, as opposed to defending the law of
the State of California, there can be all kinds of
conflicts, all kinds of situations.
That's what I got out of the brief. So give
the person that interest. And that, they say, is what's
missing here. And you'll say -- I mean, that's -
that's here, and you say it's missing here.
MR. OLSON: Yeah, I don't -
JUSTICE BREYER: Why is it missing here?
MR. OLSON: It is -- what is missing here
because you're not an officer of the State of
California. You don't have a fiduciary duty to the
State of California. You're not bound by the ethical
standards of an officer of the State of California to
represent the State of California. You could have
conflicts of interest. And as I said, you'd be -- could
be incurring enormous legal fees, on behalf of the
State, when the State hasn't decided to go that route.
I think -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: You should feel free
to move on to the merits.
MR. OLSON: Thank you, Your Honor. As I
pointed out at the -- at the outset, this is a measure
that walls off the institution of marriage, which is not
society's right. It's an individual right that this
Court again and again and again has said the right to
get married, the right to have the relationship of
marriage is a personal right. It's a part of the right
of privacy, association, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness.
In the cases in which you've described the
right to get married under the Constitution, you've
described it as marriage, procreation, family, other
things like that. So the procreation aspect, the
responsibility or ability or interest in procreation is
not a part of the right to get married. Now, that -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: I'm not sure,
counsel, that it makes -- I'm not sure that it's right
to view this as excluding a particular group. When the
institution of marriage developed historically, people
didn't get around and say let's have this institution,
but let's keep out homosexuals. The institution
developed to serve purposes that, by their nature,
didn't include homosexual couples.
It is -- yes, you can say that it serves
some of the other interests where it makes sense to
include them, but not all the interests. And it seems
to me, your friend argues on the other side, if you have
an institution that pursues additional interests, you
don't have to include everybody just because some other
aspects of it can be applied to them.
MR. OLSON: Well, there's a couple of
answers to that, it seems to me, Mr. Chief Justice. In
this case, that decision to exclude gays and lesbians
was made by the State of California.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Oh, that's only
because Proposition 8 came 140 days after the California
Supreme Court issued its decision.
MR. OLSON: That's right.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: And don't you think
it's more reasonable to view it as a change by the
California Supreme Court of this institution that's been
around since time immemorial?
MR. OLSON: The California Supreme Court,
like this Supreme Court, decides what the law is. The
California Supreme Court decided that the Equal
Protection and Due Process Clauses of that California
Constitution did not permit excluding gays and lesbians
from the right to get married -
JUSTICE SCALIA: You -- you've led me right
into a question I was going to ask. The California
Supreme Court decides what the law is. That's what we
decide, right? We don't prescribe law for the future.
We -- we decide what the law is. I'm curious, when -
when did -- when did it become unconstitutional to
exclude homosexual couples from marriage? 1791? 1868,
when the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted?
Sometimes -- some time after Baker, where we
said it didn't even raise a substantial Federal
question? When -- when -- when did the law become this?
MR. OLSON: When -- may I answer this in the
form of a rhetorical question? When did it become
unconstitutional to prohibit interracial marriages?
When did it become unconstitutional to assign children
to separate schools.
JUSTICE SCALIA: It's an easy question, I
think, for that one. At -- at the time that the -- the
Equal Protection Clause was adopted. That's absolutely
true.
But don't give me a question to my question.
(Laughter.)
JUSTICE SCALIA: When do you think it became
unconstitutional? Has it always been unconstitutional?
MR. OLSON: When the -- when the California
Supreme Court faced the decision, which it had never
faced before, is -- does excluding gay and lesbian
citizens, who are a class based upon their status as
homosexuals -- is it -- is it constitutional -
JUSTICE SCALIA: That -- that's not when it
became unconstitutional. That's when they acted in an
unconstitutional matter -- in an unconstitutional
manner. When did it become unconstitutional to prohibit
gays from marrying?
MR. OLSON: That -- they did not assign a
date to it, Justice Scalia, as you know. What the court
decided was the case that came before it -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I'm not talking about the
California Supreme Court. I'm talking about your
argument. You say it is now unconstitutional.
MR. OLSON: Yes.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Was it always
unconstitutional?
MR. OLSON: It was constitutional when we -
as a culture determined that sexual orientation is a
characteristic of individuals that they cannot control,
and that that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: I see. When did that
happen? When did that happen?
MR. OLSON: There's no specific date in
time. This is an evolutionary cycle.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Well, how am I supposed to
know how to decide a case, then -
MR. OLSON: Because the case that's before
you -
JUSTICE SCALIA: -- if you can't give me a
date when the Constitution changes?
MR. OLSON: -- in -- the case that's before
you today, California decided -- the citizens of
California decided, after the California Supreme Court
decided that individuals had a right to get married
irrespective of their sexual orientation in California
and then the Californians decided in Proposition 8, wait
a minute, we don't want those people to be able to get
married.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So -- so your
case -- your case would be different if Proposition 8
was enacted into law prior to the California Supreme
Court decision?
MR. OLSON: I would make -- I would make
the -- also would make the -- that distinguishes it in
one respect. But what also -- also -- I would also make
the argument, Mr. Chief Justice, that we are -- this -
marriage is a fundamental right and we are making a
classification based upon a status of individuals, which
this Court has repeatedly decided that gays and lesbians
are defined by their status. There is no question about
that.
JUSTICE SCALIA: So it would be
unconstitutional even in States that did not allow
civil unions?
MR. OLSON: We do, we submit that. You
could write a narrower decision.
JUSTICE SCALIA: Okay. So I want to know
how long it has been unconstitutional in those -
MR. OLSON: I don't -- when -- it seems to
me, Justice Scalia, that -
JUSTICE SCALIA: It seems to me you ought to
be able to tell me when. Otherwise, I don't know how to
decide the case.
MR. OLSON: I -- I submit you've never
required that before. When you decided that -- that
individuals -- after having decided that separate but
equal schools were permissible, a decision by this
Court, when you decided that that was unconstitutional,
when did that become unconstitutional?
JUSTICE SCALIA: 50 years ago, it was okay?
MR. OLSON: I -- I can't answer that
question and I don't think this Court has ever phrased
the question in that way.
JUSTICE SCALIA: I can't either. That's the
problem. That's exactly the problem.
MR. OLSON: But what I have before you now,
the case that's before you today is whether or not
California can take a class of individuals based upon
their characteristics, their distinguishing
characteristics, remove from them the right of privacy,
liberty, association, spirituality, and identity that -
that marriage gives them.
It -- it is -- it is not an answer to say
procreation or anything of that nature because
procreation is not a part of the right to get married.
JUSTICE KENNEDY: That's really -- that's a
broad argument that you -- that's in this case if the
Court wants to reach it. The rationale of the Ninth
Circuit was much more narrow. It basically said that
California, which has been more generous, more open to
protecting same-sex couples than almost any State in the
Union, just didn't go far enough and it's being
penalized for not going far enough.
That's a very odd rationale on which to
sustain this opinion.
MR. OLSON: This Court has always looked
into the context. In, for example, the New Orleans case
involving the gambling casinos and advertising, you look
at the context of what was permitted, what was not
permitted, and does that rationalization for prohibiting
in that case the advertising, in this case prohibiting
the relationship of marriage, does it make any sense in
the context of what exists?
JUSTICE ALITO: Oh seriously, Mr. Olson,
if California provides all the substantive benefits of
marriage to same-sex domestic partnerships, are you
seriously arguing that if California -- if the State -
if the case before us now were from a State that doesn't
provide any of those benefits to same-sex couples, this
case would come out differently?
MR. OLSON: No, I don't think it would come
out differently because of the fundamental arguments
we're making with respect to class-based distinctions
with respect to a fundamental right. However, to the
extent that my opponent in the context of California,
talks about child-rearing or adoptions or -- or of
rights of people to live together and that sort of
thing, those arguments can't be made on behalf of
California because California's already made a decision
that gay and lesbian individuals are perfectly suitable
as parents, they're perfectly suitable to adopt, they're
raising 37,000 children in California, and the expert on
the other side specifically said and testified that they
would be better off when their parents were allowed to
get married.
JUSTICE ALITO: I don't think you can have
it both ways. Either this case is the same, this would
be the same if this were Utah or Oklahoma or it's
different because it's California and California has
provided all these -
MR. OLSON: I -- I think that it's not that
we're arguing that those are inconsistent. If the -- if
the fundamental thing is that denying gays and lesbians
the right of marriage, which is fundamental under your
decisions, that is unconstitutional. If it is -- if the
State comes forth with certain arguments -- Utah might
come forth with certain justifications. California
might come forth with others. But the fact is that
California can't make the arguments about adoption or
child-rearing or people living together because they
have already made policy decisions. So that doesn't
make them inconsistent.
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: So it's just
about -- it's just about the label in this case.
MR. OLSON: The label is like -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Same-sex couples
have every other right, it's just about the label.
MR. OLSON: The label "marriage" means
something. Even our opponents -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: Sure. If you
tell -- if you tell a child that somebody has to be
their friend, I suppose you can force the child to say,
this is my friend, but it changes the definition of what
it means to be a friend.
And that's it seems to me what the -- what
supporters of Proposition 8 are saying here. You're -
all you're interested in is the label and you insist on
changing the definition of the label.
MR. OLSON: It is like you were to say you
can vote, you can travel, but you may not be a citizen.
There are certain labels in this country that are very,
very critical. You could have said in the Loving case,
what -- you can't get married, but you can have an
interracial union. Everyone would know that that was
wrong. That the -- marriage has a status, recognition,
support, and you -- if you read the test -- you know -
CHIEF JUSTICE ROBERTS: How do we know -
how do we know that that's the reason, or a necessary
part of the reason, that we've recognized marriage as a
fundamental right? That's -- you've emphasized that and
you've said, well, it's because of the emotional
commitment. Maybe it is the procreative aspect that
makes it a fundamental right.
MR. OLSON: But you have said that marriage
is a fundamental right with respect to procreation and
at the same level getting married, privacy -- you said
that in the Zablocki case, you said that in the Lawrence
case, and you said it in other cases, the Skinner case,
for example.
Marriage is put on a pro -- equal footing
with procreational aspects. And your -- this Court is
the one that has said over and over again that marriage
means something to the individual. The privacy,
intimacy, and that it is a matter of status and
recognition in this -
JUSTICE SOTOMAYOR: Mr. Olson, the bottom
line that you're being asked -- and -- and it is one
that I'm interested in the answer, if you say that
marriage is a fundamental right, what State restrictions
could ever exist? Meaning, what State restrictions with
respect to the number of people, with respect to -- that
could get married -- the incest laws, the mother and
child, assuming that they are the age -- I can -- I can
accept that the State has probably an overbearing
interest on -- on protecting a child until they're of
age to marry, but what's left?
MR. OLSON: Well, you've said -- you've said
in the cases decided by this Court that the polygamy
issue, multiple marriages raises questions about
exploitation, abuse, patriarchy, issues with respect to
